--- Page 1 ---

Değerli Öğretim Elemanları ve Lisansüstü Öğrencilerimiz,

Trakya Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi (Türkiye), Trakia Üniversitesi – Stara Zagora (Bulgaristan) ve
ortaklarımız Zagreb Üniversitesi Öğretmen Eğitimi Fakültesi (Hırvatistan) ve Ss Cyril and Methodius
Üniversitesi, Pedagoji Fakültesi (Kuzey Makedonya) işbirliğiyle düzenleyeceğimiz "I. Balkan
Uluslararası Lisansüstü Öğrenci Kongresi"ne sizleri davet etmekten mutluluk duyuyoruz. Kongre,
eğitim bilimleri alanında lisansüstü öğrencilerimiz için yeni bir akademik platform yaratmayı
amaçlamaktadır.

Balkan Uluslararası Eğitim ve Bilim Kongreleri'nin uzun süredir devam eden geleneğine dayanan, ancak
bu yıl lisansüstü öğrencilerimize özel bir alt konferans olarak gerçekleştirilecektir. Kongrenin ortak
teması “EN: Education Of The Future And The Future Dimensions Of Education, TR: Geleceğin
Eğitimi ve Eğitimin Gelecek Boyutları” olarak belirlenmiştir.

Bu kapsamda, eğitim bilimleri alanındaki yenilikçi fikirlerin, teknolojilerin ve araştırma bulgularının
paylaşılması sağlanacak, akademik işbirliklerimiz daha da güçlendirilecektir. Kongremizin nihai amacı,
lisansüstü öğrencilerimizin bilime olan ilgisini artırmak ve onları araştırma süreçlerine aktif olarak dahil
etmektir.

Kongrenin resmi dilleri Bulgarca ve İngilizce olacaktır.

Kongre Bilgileri:
Tarih: 8 – 9 Mayıs 2025
Yer: Imperial Resort Otel, Sunny Beach, Bulgaristan
Özet Gönderim ve Katılım Başvurusu İçin Son Tarih: 1 Nisan 2025
Sonuç Bildirim Tarihi: 5 Nisan 2025
Tam Metin Gönderimi: 10 Haziran 2025
Başvuru ve Detaylı Bilgi İçin: https://sites.google.com/view/balkan-international-conferenc/home-
page

--- Page 2 ---

FACULTY OF EDUCATION
TRAKIA UNIVERSITY – STARA ZAGORA (BULGARIA)
is organizing
I BALKAN INTERNATIONAL STUDENT
AND PHD CONFERENCE
on the topic of:
"EDUCATION OF THE FUTURE AND THE FUTURE
DIMENSIONS OF EDUCATION"
8 – 9 may, 2025
Sunny Beach, Bulgaria
Co-organisators of the conference:

Faculty of Teacher Education,
University of Zagreb – Zagreb (Croatia)

Faculty of Pedagogy „St. Kliment Ohridski”,
University „Ss Cyril and Methodius” – Skopje (NR Macedonia)

Faculty of Education,
Trakya University – Edirne (Turkey)
INVITATION
We kindly invite you to participate in the I BALKAN INTERNATIONAL STUDENT
AND PHD CONFERENCE.
This scientific forum is a continuation of a long-standing tradition of holding the annual
Balkan International Educational and Scientific Congresses, established as traditional integrative
intellectual platforms for presenting the latest trends in the development of education and
educational science.
The organizers of the upcoming conference intend to implement the forum in unison with
the highest academic standards and to further develop the traditional institutional partnership by
providing opportunities for sharing new educational ideas, technologies and practices of future
educators.
The main goal of the conference is to intensify the interest of the student community in
the field of science and attract it to research activity.

--- Page 3 ---

Scientific fields:
 Modern Concepts and Technologies of Teaching, Education, Socialization and Inclusion
 Language and Intercultural Interactions
 Interdisciplinary and Digital Dimensions of Education
 Early Childhood Pedagogy
The official languages of the conference are Bulgarian and English.
Abstract:
Abstracts should contain no more than 200 words and include a clearly articulated research
problem, original ideas, objectives, methods, results and conclusions.
Abstracts should be accompanied by 5-10 key words.
Participants can submit applications for a maximum of two reports, in one case as authors and
in the other – as co-authors.
Application must be submitted through the online conference system.
Participants can access the website of I Balkan international student and PhD conference
and register for participation by filling the registration form
Important dates:
Deadline for sending a request for participation and abstract: 01 April, 2025
Notification of the authors in case of refusal: 05 April, 2025
Full paper submission: 10 June, 2025
The materials of the conference will be published in the Student Almanac of the Faculty of
Education at Trakia University – Stara Zagora.
Conference fees:
The fee for participation for students is 40 EUR.
The fee for PhD students - 60 EUR.
Co-authors pay a fee of 30 EUR for students/50 EUR for PhD students and university staff
members.
Listener fee: 30 EUR.
The university staff members can participate only as co-authors.
The fee includes the materials from the conference, publication of the reports in an electronic
format and an official cocktail.
Deadline for payment: 10 April, 2025. Fees should be paid by bank transfer only.
Bank account:
UniCredit Bulbank
IBAN: BG60 UNCR 7630 3100 1176 08,
BIC: UNCRBGSF
Trakia University – PF

--- Page 4 ---

Venue:
The conference will be held in the hotel complex "Imperial Resort", Sunny Beach
(Bulgaria).
Price for accommodation and reservations:
Double room with a park view - 40 EUR per person per night, Ultra All Inclusive
Single room with a park view - 55 EUR per person per night, Ultra All Inclusive
Parking – 12,50 EUR per car per day
For more information and accommodation:
Dzhuliya  Petkova
phone: +359 882999669
e-mail: office@hitholidaybg.com
www.hitholidaybg.com
Contacts:
Svetlana Koleva – expert in the Research Department of the Faculty of Education, Trakia
University – Stara Zagora;
Associate Professor Elena Lavrentsova – Deputy Dean of Research and International
Cooperation at the Faculty of Education, Trakia University University – Stara Zagora.
e-mail: pfconf@trakia-uni.bg
More information about the conference is available on the website: I Balkan international
student and PhD conference