--- Page 1 ---
1

MIDDLE EAST TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY
ACADEMIC INTEGRITY GUIDE FOR STUDENTS

Middle East Technical University aims to access knowledge and produce, apply and
disseminate it for the social, cultural, economic, scientific and technological development of
both our society and humanity by carrying out activities of education, research and
community services at universal standards, and to educate individuals who are equipped with
this knowledge and at the same time who respect knowledge and the rights of others. In
accordance with this aim, all members and students of our university adopt the following
METU Code of Honor:

"As reliable, responsible and honorable individuals, all members of Middle East
Technical University embrace only the success and recognition they deserve, and
act with integrity in the use, evaluation and presentation of facts, data and
documents."

What is academic integrity?
Academic Integrity entails carrying out original work and sharing ideas and findings of
others provided that the source is cited.

What are infringements of academic integrity?
1. Plagiarism,
2. Cheating,
3. Presenting or submitting in different courses the whole or part of a personal study,
homework or project done previously with a different purpose without citing the
source,
4. Indicating sources that do not actually exist as references or creating a false data set,
5. Conducting academic work on behalf of other students,
6. Behaving in a manner so as to obtain an unfair advantage (obtaining false medical
reports, declaring false excuses for period extensions and make-ups, transferring or
obtaining the right of enrollment to a course in exchange for a personal gain, etc.),
7. Producing or making use of fraudulent documents (reference letters, medical reports,
proficiency documents/scores, transcripts, etc.)
8. Impersonating someone else in an exam; having someone else impersonate oneself.

Plagiarism:
“Plagiarism is intentionally or unintentionally acquiring and using someone else’s ideas and
opinions and presenting them as if one’s own without making a reference to or citing the
source.”   (ODTÜ UEAM)
Detailed information on the types of plagiarism can be found at the address
http://ueam.metu.edu.tr/intihal.

--- Page 2 ---
2

Cheating:
Cheating is described as any attempt or action involving the use of disallowed sources
secretly while answering exam questions. Each item below is within the scope of cheating:
1. Peeking at another student’s paper during an exam,
2. Peeking at another student’s paper during an exam and copying the answers onto
one’s own paper,
3. Talking to other students during the exam,
4. Any kind of sharing of information and sources during an exam (exchanging notes,
etc.)
5. Taking exam questions and/or answers out of the exam hall without permission by
writing them down or photographing them,
6. Transmitting exam questions to someone else or obtaining answers through cellular
phones or any other electronic gadget during the exam,
7. Writing notes concerning the content of the exam on desks and accessories used
during the exam, or on one’s body or elsewhere,
8. Having someone else do the academic work; doing work to be done individually with
other students,
9. Submitting to the course instructor reports/documents such as homework or projects
prepared by others as if one’s own work.

Disciplinary action to be taken against cheating is arranged by the Rules and Regulations
Governing Student Disciplinary Actions in Institutions of Higher Education, which can
be found at the address http://oidb.metu.edu.tr/yonetmelikler.

Reminders for students:
1. Carefully read the documents concerning academic integrity which have been issued
to you and the related regulations on the University’s website.
2. Learn in detail which situations fall into the scope of plagiarism in academic studies
from relevant resources (e.g. ODTÜ UEAM website). In cases of plagiarism, excuses
such as “I wasn’t aware that what I’ve done is within the scope of plagiarism” are
unacceptable. Be informed that the responsibility for such behavior is entirely yours.
3. Use your own ideas in all of your work such a piece of homework, project etc.
Indicate the source of any thought, idea, text, document or finding which does not
belong to you.
4. Prepare all your homework, projects, reports etc. by referring to the accessible
original (primary) sources.
5. During examinations, abide by the rules in the Middle East Technical University
Guide for Rules To Be Followed in an Examination Environment as well as the rules
determined by the instructor of the course.
