--- Page 1 ---

GRADUATE APPLICATION INFORMATION SHEET
The upcoming application dates are between 23 FEBRUARY-27 MARCH 2026
How should I apply? You will only apply through the online application program. You do not need to
send any hardcopy documents or come to the university physically. Please use the program number 339
at https://application.metu.edu.tr
What are the application requirements? The application requirements may change from program to program. You are recommended to visit
the webpage of the related graduate school and go through the “Admissions” pages. The list of the graduate programs and the graduate schools
is available here: https://www.metu.edu.tr/graduate-programs-and-degreesoffered-odtu
Basically, you will be asked to provide the following:
1.
A certain level of GPA: This is the cumulative GPA stated on your diploma or temporary graduation certificate. If it is not out of 4.00,
you may use the grade conversion table on the webpage of the Registrar’s Office (https://oidb.metu.edu.tr) Find the “Grade Conversion Table”
under the “Courses” section.
2.
An English Proficiency Score: You MUST provide a valid English exam score. Accepted English exams are stated below with the
minimum required scores. Without an English score, you CANNOT make an application.  The scores given below are approximate scores,
so please check the “Application Criteria” pages of the related graduate school. Do not forget that these exam scores are only valid for 2
years. (Native speakers should contact the graduate school for exemption options. If you are a graduate of METU or have studied at a graduate
program at METU recently, please check the website of the related graduate school for the exemption options.))

Exam
Minimum Score

Exam
Minimum Score
ODTÜ English Proficiency Exam – İYS
65-80

IELTS
NOT ACCEPTED
TOEFL IBT
79-95

PTE Academic
70-75
●
ODTU IYS Exam will be held on 3-4 February 2026 (consisting of two parts in two days) and the exam will be held face-to-face.
●
The applications for the exam will be taken between the 16 - 25 JANUARY 2026 via https://application.metu.edu.tr/ Please see this
page for the details of the application for the ODTU IYS exam: http://oidb.metu.edu.tr/en/application-process Exam details are
available at http://epe.metu.edu.tr
●
See here for Equivalence Table for English Language Exams Recognized by METU and some important notes.
https://oidb.metu.edu.tr/en/equivalence-table-english-language-exams-recognized-metu-undergraduate-and-graduate-students
3.
An ALES or GRE score: Applicants should provide an ALES (Graduate Education Entrance Exam-An exam done by Turkish
authorities in Turkish) or a GRE (Graduate Record Examinations) score. International students, most of the time, provide GRE scores as the
ALES exam is in Turkish. The minimum required GRE score for graduate programs at ODTÜ may vary, but it is mostly around 149-155. We
recommend you to check the “Application Criteria” pages of the related graduate school for the correct required score.
In some rare cases, international students can also apply without a GRE score but only for conditional acceptance. Conditional acceptance
means that students are expected to get at least BB grades in their first semester. Otherwise, their registration will be canceled. Please contact
the related graduate school for the availability of conditional acceptance for your preferred program.
4.
Letter of Intention and Reference letters: You will not submit hardcopy reference letters but enter the name and the contact details
of your references. They will receive a link to fill the reference letter for your application.

How much is the tuition fee? The fee structure is available here: https://iso.metu.edu.tr/en/tuition-fee  There are two semesters in one academic
year, and typically, a master’s program lasts for 2 years, and a doctorate program lasts for 4 years. Students can get %50 or %100 discounts on
tuition fees depending on their CGPA.
ATTENTION!!! Graduate applications are taken and evaluated by the graduate schools and NOT BY THE INTERNATIONAL
STUDENTS OFFICE. So please check the related website and direct your further questions to the graduate schools:
●
Graduate School of Natural and Applied Sciences https://fbe.metu.edu.tr – etuzun@metu.edu.tr
●
Graduate School of Social Sciences https://sbe.metu.edu.tr – sbekayit@metu.edu.tr
●
Informatics Institute https://ii.metu.edu.tr -  bbaris@metu.edu.tr
●
Graduate School of Applied Mathematics https://iam.metu.edu.tr
●
Institute of Marine Sciences http://ims.metu.edu.tr/
Application fee:
55 USD per program applied to.
http://oidb.metu.edu.tr/en/bank-
account-numbers-other-services
Students with active registration
in Turkish universities are
exempted.