--- Page 1 ---
Important message to institutions:
Due to exceptional circumstances linked to COVID19, processing of HRS4R applications on the European
Commission (EC) side might suffer additional delays. Moreover, in the context of extraordinary measures taken at
national level (e.g. universities or other institutions closed), all self-assessment deadlines between 15 March and 30
April can be extended by one or two months, depending on your needs. You only need to apply for an extension
electronically in your dashboard or, if you need more than one month extension, send an email to the functional
mailbox: RTD-CHARTER@ec.europa.eu.
Site Visits: All in house audits planned for April (and possibly May – depending on how the pandemic situation
evolves) are cancelled. HRS4R experts and/or EC will contact you in due course to arrange additional dates. No
other site visits dates will be set before the situation both at EU and national level stabilises. Meanwhile, you can
continue using the HR Excellence in research award.
Remote assessments: We will continue processing remote evaluations within the limits of HRS4R experts’
availability and the special circumstances of EC staff being on mandatory teleworking. Please note that evaluation
and communication of outcome might incur further delays.
Action Plan
Case number:  2018TR355789
Name Organisation under review:  Middle East Technical University
Organisation’s contact details:  ODTÜ Üniversiteler Mah. Dumlupınar Bul. No:1, Ankara, Cankaya,
06800
1. Organisational Information
Please provide a limited number of key figures for your organisation. Figures marked * are compulsory.
STAFF & STUDENTS
FTE
Total researchers = staﬀ, fellowship holders, bursary holders, PhD. students
either full-time or part-time involved in research *
Of whom are international (i.e. foreign nationality) *
Of whom are externally funded (i.e. for whom the organisation is host
organisation) *
Of whom are women *
Of whom are stage R3 or R4 = Researchers with a large degree of autonomy,
typically holding the status of Principal Investigator or Professor. *
1735
47
75
979
555
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
1 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 2 ---
STAFF & STUDENTS
FTE
Of whom are stage R2 = in most organisations corresponding with postdoctoral
level *
Of whom are stage R1 = in most organisations corresponding with doctoral level
*
Total number of students (if relevant) *
Total number of staﬀ (including management, administrative, teaching and
research staﬀ) *
RESEARCH FUNDING (ﬁgures for most recent ﬁscal year)
€
Total annual organisational budget
Annual organisational direct government funding (designated for research)
Annual competitive government-sourced funding (designated for research,
obtained in competition with other organisations – including EU funding)
Annual funding from private, non-government sources, designated for research
ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE (a very brief description of your organisation, max. 100 words)
Founded in 1956, METU is a state-owned international research university located in Ankara, Turkey. It is the
first and only university in Turkey to enter the top 100 in The Times Higher Education World University
Rankings 2014 list. Its reputation is a reflection of the leading position among Turkish universities with respect
to the share of research funds accounting for 20% of all its expenditures annually. METU is the first Turkish
state university being awarded by Horizon 2020 ERC and Twining project, and ranked the first university in the
Entrepreneurial and Innovative University Index 2018. METU has 41 undergraduate programs in 5 faculties, 5
Graduate Schools with 105 masters and 70 doctorate programs.
218
840
27582
4367
110636182,7
76326635,5
30396243,5
3913303,7
2. Strengths and weaknesses of the current practice
Please provide an overview of the organisation in terms of the current strengths and weaknesses of the current
practice under the four thematic headings of the Charter and Code at your organization.
Note:Click on the name of each of the four thematic headings of the Charter and Code to open the editor and
provide your answer.
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
2 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 3 ---
Ethical and professional aspects*
Strengths and Weaknesses (max. 800 words)
Strengths:
METU obtained “Research University Status” from Turkish Higher Education Council. This status is
given to institutions who are producing high-quality knowledge, having visibility and recognition in
international academic rankings, conducting research on regional and global grand challenges,
seeking excellence not only for research but also for education, knowledge production, transfer and
sharing, and contributing to common values of humanity. After granted the status moreover, METU
has been selected as the most successful research university in the 2017-2018 monitoring process.

METU researchers have a positive perception regarding their research freedom and current
regulations and practices aligned with the C&C.
Appropriate instruments (i.e. compulsory use of anti-plagiarism software) exist to ensure the quality
of the research and avoid ethical problems in the behaviour of research personnel.
The existence of the Scientiﬁc Research and Publication Ethics Committee.
Transparent accountability.
The existence of a well-established Quality Assurance Policy.
The embeddedness of ethical and professional aspects in METU Strategic Plan.
The existence of diﬀerent units to ensure non-discrimination and to deal with ethical violations and
mobbing.
Weaknesses:
Low level of knowledge of the ethical and good professional practice C&C principles among R1
researchers.
Not all the researchers are familiar with the existing mechanisms as regards to contractual and legal
obligations.
Despite the existence of multitude of outreach activities, the awareness on these activities needs to
be increased among METU researchers.
Ethical principles are scattered in several documents.
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
3 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 4 ---
Recruitment and selection*
Strengths and Weaknesses (max. 800 words)
Strengths:
As a public university, METU oﬀers permanent positions for R2, R3 and R4 researchers for Turkish
citizens.
Mobility experience is considered as a must.
Merit-based selection and hiring policy and procedure.
All announcements of available positions contain a clear indication of the entry requirements which
are set by Higher Education Law, No.2547, Personnel Law of Higher Education No. 2914 and
METU Recruitment Policy.
The academic divisions and departments are free to set their own research priorities and select
candidates accordingly.
The introduction of new post-doctoral (BAP-DOSAP) programme.
Weaknesses:
The positions to be oﬀered and number of positions are subject to the approval of Turkish Higher
Education Council.
As a public university, METU cannot hire international researchers for permanent positions.
The level of awareness about OTM-R and C&C should be improved.
More eﬃcient use of EURAXESS platform to increase post-doctoral appointments is needed.
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
4 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 5 ---
Working conditions*
Strengths and Weaknesses (max. 800 words)
Strengths:
METU recognizes all research staﬀ as professionals and treats them accordingly at all stages of
their careers.
METU sustains a stimulating and professional research environment.
METU has appropriate IPR regulations and services.
METU encourages its researchers to share their opinions through many channels and to participate
in the decision-making process at diﬀerent levels.
While providing support to the career development of staﬀ, METU prioritizes gender equality along
with research and teaching skills, funding opportunities, publication prospects, etc.
With its strong mobility policy for its staﬀ and students, METU contributes to maintain strong
relations with the national and international professional and academic institutions.
METU has a system that balances the teaching load with research activities.
Weaknesses:
Although METU gives importance to provide appropriate working conditions to its employees and
students for successful research performance, it is challenging for METU to promote work-family
balance for both women and men due to national regulations.
METU faces with diﬃculty to establish permanent contracts for all R1 researchers due to strict legal
framework of the state.
Career development and advice strategies of METU need to be reviewed and updated. It needs to
be fully in line with the EU Charter and Code for Researchers and is furthered to include designing
new career development strategies for all types of researchers from R1 to R4.
In spite of the fact that METU has developed some measures to stimulate co-authorship, it is
necessary for METU to ﬁnd new strategies to create more interdisciplinary and diverse ties between
researchers.
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
5 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 6 ---
Training and development*
Strengths and Weaknesses (max. 800 words)
Strengths:
METU has appropriate rules and regulations for relations with supervisors.
METU assures that proposed supervisors are suﬃciently experts in supervising research, have the
time, knowledge, expertise, and commitment to be able to oﬀer the research trainee appropriate
support and provide necessary progress
Weaknesses:
METU needs to develop some incentives to encourage its senior researchers to mentor early-career
researchers at the beginning of their career.
METU adheres to the principles for providing access to research training and professional
development. However, access to research training and continuing professional development
require further implementations and improvements. Revision and update of professional
development strategies and access to it along with the EU Charter and Code for Researchers have
to be fulﬁlled.
3. Actions
The Action Plan and HRS4R strategy must be published on an easily accessible location of the organisation’s
website.
Please fill in the list of all individual actions to be undertaken in your organisation's HRS4R to address the
weaknesses or strengths identified in the Gap-Analysis. The listed actions should be concise, but detailed enough for
the assessors to evaluate the level of ambition, engagement and the expected implementation process. The
institution should strive to provide a detailed plan, not just an enumeration of actions.
Note: Choose one or more of the principles automatically retrieved from the GAP Analysis with their implementation
ratings.
Proposed ACTIONS
Please provide the web link to the organization's Action Plan/HR Strategy dedicated webpage(s):
http://pdo.metu.edu.tr/node/192
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
6 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 7 ---
Proposed ACTIONS
Action 1
Action 1
Action 1: Maximizing the use of EURAXESS
Service Centre and portal Task 1: Making
METU EURAXESS Service Centre more visible
by placing it on an easily accessible place on
the institution's website Task 2: Revising
Welcome Package provided to new comers
Task 3: Raising the number of job
advertisements including external funding for
both researchers and students on Euraxess
jobs portal Task 4: Increasing the number of
international researchers through Marie
Sklodowska Curie Actions (MSCA) fellowships,
European Research Council (ERC) funding,
and Erasmus + programmes Task 5: Regular
updating the METU staﬀ about HRS4R
process through Euraxess webpage and
e-mails
GAP Principle(s)
Timing (at least
by year’s
quarter/semester)
GAP Principle(s)
Timing (at least
by year’s
quarter/semester)
(++) 4. Professional attitude
(+/-) 19. Recognition of
qualiﬁcations (Code)
(+/-) 21. Postdoctoral
appointments (Code)
(+/-) 28. Career development
(++) 29. Value of mobility
(+/-) 30. Access to career advice
T1: 1st quarter of
ﬁrst year T2: 2nd
quarter of ﬁrst year
T3:4th quarter of
second year T4:
4th quarter of
second year T5: All
quarters of ﬁrst
and second year
Responsible
Unit
Indicator(s) / Target(s)
• Research
Coordination
Oﬃce •
Advisor to
the
President for
Directorate
of
Computing
Services •
Computing
Centre •
International
Cooperation
Oﬃce • Vice-
President
Responsible
for Research
• Directorate
of Personnel
Aﬀairs
• Placement of EURAXESS Service
Centre to an easily accessible place on
the METU’s website • Completion and
revision of Welcome Package • Number
of job advertisements via EURAXESS
jobs portal • Number of incoming
international researchers • Number of
MSCA, ERC, RISE and Erasmus +
projects • Number e-mails and posts
regarding HRS4R process
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
7 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 8 ---
Proposed ACTIONS
Action 2
GAP Principle(s)
Timing (at least
by year’s
quarter/semester)
Responsible
Unit
Indicator(s) / Target(s)
• Vice-
President
responsible
for Research
• Research
Coordination
Oﬃce •
Scientiﬁc
Research
and
Publication
Ethics
Committee •
Graduate
School of
Applied
Mathematics
• Graduate
School of
Informatics •
Graduate
School of
Marine
Sciences •
Graduate
School of
Natural and
Applied
Sciences •
Graduate
School of
Social
Sciences
• Online publication of C&C on the
website of The Scientiﬁc Research and
Publication Ethics Committee. •
Preparation of the one single document
that clearly identiﬁes rules and
regulations of ethical principles in line
with C&C and national laws and
regulations • Updated training modules
• Updated welcome package • Updated
training for R1 researchers
Unselected principles:
(++) 10. Non discrimination
(++) 22. Recognition of the profession
(++) 23. Research environment
(++) 26. Funding and salaries
(++) 27. Gender balance
(++) 31. Intellectual Property Rights
(++) 33. Teaching
(++) 34. Complains/ appeals
(++) 35. Participation in decision-making bodies
(++) 36. Relation with supervisors
(++) 40. Supervision
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
8 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 9 ---
The establishment of an Open Recruitment Policy is a key element in the HRS4R strategy. Please also indicate how
your organisation will use the Open, Transparent and Merit-Based Recruitment Toolkit and how you intend to
implement/are implementing the principles of Open, Transparent and Merit-Based Recruitment. Although there may
be some overlap with a range of actions listed above, please provide a short commentary demonstrating this
implementation. If the case, please make the link between the OTM-R checklist and the overall action plan. (max.
1000 words) *
As a state-owned university, the entry and admission standards for researchers are set by the Turkish Higher
Education Council (YÖK).  METU ensure that recruitment and selection practices are carried out according to
the regulatory framework. METU Recruitment Policy establish recruitment procedures which are open, efficient,
transparent, merit-based, supportive and internationally comparable.  As set by the Higher Education Law the
offers are first approved by YÖK, and then employment offers are published on the webpages of YÖK, related
departments and the Official Gazette of Turkish Republic.
The recruitment procedure consists of two steps: Candidates should satisfy appointment criteria and, qualitative
evaluation by a jury of faculty members, from both METU and other respectable universities. METU
appointment and promotion criteria is accessible at http://pdb.metu.edu.tr/ogretim-uyesiatama-ve-yukselme-
kriterleri (for Turkish citizens) https://pdb.metu.edu.tr/tr/criteria-promotion-andappointment (for international
staff).
METU Recruitment Policy embraces open, efficient, transparent, merit-based recruitment and selection
process. The selection process ensures equity, fairness, flexibility and equal opportunity principles. The
academic divisions and departments are responsible for setting their own research priorities and managing their
resources with support provided by the University and selecting the best candidates according to their needs
and priorities.
Due to the status of METU as a state-owned university, the OTM-R principles can be implemented within the
limits of the related national laws (Public Officials Law, No. 657;  Labour Law, No. 4857;  Higher Education Law,
No.2547; Personnel Law of Higher Education No. 2914). Permanent faculty positions are only open to Turkish
nationals which appoints successful candidates as civil servants of the Turkish Republic. Such a position brings
job security, fixed salary and social security and pension rights. The existing national laws and regulations set
standards for METU that are in line with the OTM-R toolkit. Additionally, as having the status of research
university granted by YÖK, METU is audited internally and externally which will positively contribute the
implementation of OTM-R principles.
However, because of the national limitations this type of faculty positions cannot be advertised on EURAXESS
portal. METU is required to obtain permits from the Higher Education Council of Turkey to employ international
academic staff on contract. For international researchers there is a manual with the procedures to be followed.
The employment procedure for temporary positions most of which are externally funded including different
project schemes (EU FP, TÜBİTAK etc.) are different. The temporary positions have been published on
EURAXESS portal.
In order to provide maximum compliance with the C&C and OTM-R principles within the limits of the national
law, an action is included in the METU Action Plan.
Action 5: Raising awareness about the Code of Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers and OTM-R
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
9 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 10 ---
principles
Task 1: Raising awareness about Code of Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers and OTM-R principles
at the senior management level
Task 2: Reviewing the existing recruitment policy within the limits of national law and regulations
Task 3: Dissemination of OTM-R principles to Faculties and Graduate Schools
With this action, METU aims to make sure that the current policy is reviewed and implemented considering the
OTM-R Toolkit. Trainings and awareness-raising activities both at senior management and research community
levels will be provided to all those who are involved in the recruitment process.
If your organisation already has a recruitment strategy which implements the principles of Open, Transparent and
Merit-Based Recruitment, please provide the web link where this strategy can be found on your organisation's
website:
URL:
https://pdb.metu.edu.tr/tr/criteria-promotion-
andappointment
4. Implementation
General overview of the expected overall implementation process of the action plan: (max. 1000 words)
There are 8 main actions identified for the two-year period. One of the actions is dedicated to the
implementation and monitoring of the actions in order to ensure a timely and appropriate realization of the
actions. The Action Plan (AP) will start immediately upon the acceptance of the AP by the European
Commission. Research Coordination Office along with related unit will form an implementation team to
accomplish the proposed actions. The implementation team will be responsible a smooth conduct of the
HRS4R process through actively involving researchers, working group and steering committee. In doing so,
implementation team will organize 4 workshops to monitor the progress, assess the implementation, and
provide adjustments where necessary. In order to measure progress, the team will also draft monitoring report
at the end of each year.
Make sure you also cover all the aspects highlighted in the checklist below, which you will need to describe in detail:
Note:Click on each question of the checklist to open the editor.
How will the implementation committee and/or steering group regularly oversee progress?*
Detailed description and duly justification (max. 500 words)
Implementation Committee (IC) will report to Steering Committee established for monitoring the
HRS4R process twice a year through workshops and monitoring reports. The reports will be the basis
of the Revised Action Plan.
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
10 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 11 ---
How do you intend to involve the research community, your main stakeholders, in the
implementation process?
*
Detailed description and duly justification (max. 500 words)
HRS4R process involves multitude of academic and administrative units through Working Groups,
Steering Committee and Implementation Committee. Actions planned for the first two requires the
inclusion of active participation of Faculties, Graduate Schools and Divisions of University
Administration. Moreover, the process will be presented to research community through trainings,
meetings, faculty visits as well as e-mails, announcements etc.
How do you proceed with the alignment of organisational policies with the HRS4R? Make sure
the HRS4R is recognized in the organisation’s research strategy, as the overarching HR policy.
*
Detailed description and duly justification (max. 500 words)
After the interim progress report, METU will revise and update the Action Plan which will be integrated
to the next strategic plan of 2023-2027.
How will you ensure that the proposed actions are implemented?*
Detailed description and duly justification (max. 500 words)
Steering Committee and Vice-President responsible for Research will supervise the implementation of
the Action Plan. The Director of Research Coordination Office together with the Implementation
Committee will ensure the timely and proper implementation of the actions.
How will you monitor progress (timeline)?*
Detailed description and duly justification (max. 500 words)
All actions are broken down into tasks in order to closely assess scheduling of the actions. Additionally,
the timing of the actions is identified according to the tasks to facilitate not only realization but also
monitoring and implementation of the actions. The Steering Committee will supervise the process.
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
11 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47

--- Page 12 ---
How will you measure progress (indicators) in view of the next assessment?*
Detailed description and duly justification (max. 500 words)
The progress will be measured according to the indicators clearly specified in each action. The
workshops will serve as a venue to evaluate whether the actions are carried on according to the
timeline provided in the Action Plan. The Steering Committee will be in charge of taking initiative and
proposing adjustments for delays and obstacles.
Additional remarks/comments about the proposed implementation process: (max. 1000 words)
METU has a leading position in terms of international scientific publications and share of research funds from
national scientific research funding agencies, primarily The Scientific and Technological Research Council of
Turkey (TÜBİTAK), among the most prominent universities of Turkey. Moreover, ODTÜ – as an international
research-intensive university – is among the leading universities in Turkey in terms of depth and breadth of
international research projects and the amount of funds generated from research activities.
ODTÜ has actively taken part in and managed various projects under the Instrument for Pre-Accession
Assistance (IPA), especially the Framework Programmes (FP) as well as other international projects, such as
COST, Erasmus, Newton-Katip Çelebi Fund, etc. In this context, as of September, 2019, ODTÜ has 354
international projects (either signed or in Grant Agreement phase) with a total budget of 765 M€ and ODTÜ's
share of 54 M€. Among these projects, 316 are completed with a total budget of 760M€ and ODTÜ's share of
50M€, while 158 of these completed projects are supported by the EU Framework Programmes with a total
budget of 680 M€ within which ODTÜ’s share of 39,5 M€.
Middle East Technical University is committed to intensify and accelerate the alignment of the European
Research Area (ERA) and Turkish Research Area (TARAL) based on the five ERA priorities. It is currently
focusing on An Open Labour Market for Researchers and Gender Equality and Gender Mainstreaming in
Research. Accordingly, it has adopted the Antwerp Charter on Gender-Sensitive Communication in and by
Academic Institutions in 2015. On the other hand, it has been a service centre under the EURAXESS Network
since 2015 and its senior management respects and acknowledges the principles of the European Charter for
Researchers and the European Code of Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers and is committed to
completing its HRS4R Action Plan. The gap analysis revealed twelve areas that needs to be addressed. Based
on these gaps, eight actions with multiple tasks have been developed to cover the identified twelve gaps.
HRS4R Form | EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/my/hrs4r/355789/2867/action-p...
12 / 12
14.04.2020 12:47