Important announcement for the A-level applicants | International Students Office
Skip to main content
Important announcement for the A-level applicants
English
Türkçe
Listen
Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and its global effects, many institutions have either postponed or altered their regular affairs, procedures, and the duration in which they execute such affairs. Concordantly, many prospective students have asked regarding the future of A-level applicants, such as the possibility of applying after they take their A level results in October / November. Concomitantly, many prospective students also asked whether METU will adjust or change its minimum application criterion or application dates with respect to these recent developments announced by the Cambridge exam board.
Following recent developments and
decisions taken by the Cambridge exam board
, Middle East Technical University has decided that A-level applicants can apply using their A-level grades calculated by their schools taking mock exams, assignments, course and AS levels into considerations. In other words, A-level students will be able to apply using their final results, which will be announced in the summer of 2020. A-level students who prefer to take the exam in the Fall 2020 period will only be able to apply for the 2021-2022 academic year.
Also, the minimum application requirement for the GCE system will remain the same, which has been "A minimum of AAB in 3 A Levels, two of which shall be relevant to the program applied for. / Note 1: If you study more than three A-level subjects, only three of them will be considered in the evaluation. / Note 2: Language subjects other than English cannot be used for application."
You can find the relevant official announcement by the Cambridge exam board on the following link. We expect that the other exam boards will also implement similar procedures.
https://www.cambridgeinternational.org/news/news-details/view/update-for...
Share
Tweet
Last Updated:
07/04/2020 - 17:10
Üniversiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupınar Bulvarı No:1, 06800 Çankaya/Ankara © ORTA DOĞU TEKNİK ÜNİVERSİTESİ ANKARA KAMPUSU