About Ankara | International Students Office
Skip to main content
About Ankara
ODTÜ in Brief
About ODTÜ
360° ODTÜ
About Ankara
Brochures & Flyers
Student Experiences
Share
Tweet
Last Updated:
05/01/2024 - 13:30
English
Türkçe
Listen
Ankara is the capital city of Türkiye and the second-largest city in the country after Istanbul. It is located in the heart of both Türkiye and Central Anatolia. The population is over 5 million.
Ankara is the administrative center of Türkiye and a huge university town, so it has a large population of government workers and university students. As the national capital, Ankara is home to a large population of foreign diplomats and embassy staff, so it offers goods and services that might be more difficult to find in other Turkish cities including but not limited to theatre, opera, ballet, jazz, and modern dance as well as many traditional and modern shopping centers, cafes, restaurants, and bars designed for any type of taste and style.
Climate
Due to its elevation and inland location, Ankara has cold, snowy winters and hot, dry summers, with cool nightly temperatures. Rainfall occurs mostly during the spring and autumn.
Annual Average Temperature:
January 0 °C
April 17 °C
July 25 °C
October 20 °C
You may get detailed and updated information about the weather in Ankara here:
https://mgm.gov.tr/eng/forecast-cities.aspx
Public transportation
Ankara has developed its public transportation infrastructure in recent years and increased the number of its metro lines to five, which used to be only two for many years. Kızılay is the heart of public transportation in Ankara and ODTÜ has been well integrated into this network with its own station on the M2 Line. The detailed subway map is available
at this link
.
Getting to Ankara and ODTÜ Campus
By Plane
Esenboğa Airport (ESB) is a modern and large airport providing domestic and international flights to many destinations. It is located 28 km northeast of the city. From the airport, you can get to ODTÜ by
First, take the airport shuttles to Kızılay Subway Station.
Then, use the Metro connection to ODTÜ.
You can also take a taxi from the Airport to the ODTÜ Ankara Campus. It costs approximately 450 Turkish Liras.
https://esenbogaairport.com/en-EN/
By Train
Ankara Train Station has been very recently renovated and is the heart of the Turkish national rail network. From the train station, you can get to ODTÜ by metro connection starting from Maltepe station on A1 Line (Ankaray). You can also take a taxi from the train station to the ODTÜ Ankara Campus. It costs approximately 175 Turkish Liras.
https://ebilet.tcddtasimacilik.gov.tr
By Bus
The buses terminate at the bus station (otogar) named AŞTİ (pronounced
ush-tee
) standing for "Ankara Intercity Terminal". Most of the cities in Türkiye have direct buses to the capital of Türkiye, and buses are much faster than trains in Türkiye, except the high-speed trains from İstanbul, Eskişehir, and Konya. From the bus station, you can get to ODTÜ by the metro connection. You can also take a taxi from the bus station to the ODTÜ Ankara Campus. It costs approximately 100 Turkish Liras.
Üniversiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupınar Bulvarı No:1, 06800 Çankaya/Ankara © ORTA DOĞU TEKNİK ÜNİVERSİTESİ ANKARA KAMPUSU