Student Experiences | Uluslararası Öğrenci Ofisi
Skip to main content
Student Experiences
English
Türkçe
Dinle
Yumnah Abbasi (Pakistan) - Social Sciences (GeTMa) - Masters
Being a student at METU's international joint program with a German university, I have observed a completely global culture. We study in a class with students from all over the world which have made our time at METU full of new and unique experiences. I believe that METU provides a platform to it's students to grow academically, morally and socially. With the world and the needs of the community changing at an ever-increasing rate, METU aims to be open to change, to adapt, innovate and keep pace with the goals of the society, and the wider world. I am truly thankful to be a part of this outclass university.
Resky Saputra (Indonesia) - Chemical Engineering - Graduated
METU as the best university in Turkey is the place where you can find the multicultural environment of students from different countries. Being accepted at METU bachelor program of Chemical Engineering gave me the opportunity to explore my potential and fulfill my dreams as well. I found a very caring and homely environment at METU where the faculty staff and the people are exceptionally supportive. I am grateful to all my METU Professors as well as the other staffs.
Kinya Emily Thomas (Kenya) - International Relations - 3rd  Year
Looking for a world-class institution that offers great exposure and promising career prospects? METU is the place. I couldn't have asked for a better learning experience.
Abdul Rehman Habib (Kenya) - Chemical Engineering - Masters
Studying in METU offers an access to a wide range of opportunities that are not only academic but helpful in day to day life. The wide range of nationals in the campus provides a unique taste of the different cultures of the world. The skills taught in the campus enable students to navigate the tough and competitive world outside. The state of the art infrastructure in the university is especially perfect for graduate students who wish to undertake their research in the numerous courses available at the campus. Definitely a top quality campus.
Bahaa Hamed (Palestine) - Environmental Engineering - 4
th
Year
METU Ankara not only provides a high quality of education but also gives you the opportunity to interact with all nationalities and support you with long life experience, here your voice is heard, your thoughts do matter.... here YOU CAN make a difference!
Alak A.A. Abduljabar (Iraq) - Mining Engineering - 1st Year
METU is a huge campus offering high-quality education and numerous sports and arts facilities for its students. The two semesters that I've spent in METU so far taught me how to be an independent person and how to live on my own in a multicultural environment. Even though I encountered some communication problems due to my level of Turkish language, it has been a perfect opportunity for me to learn even more!
Abdulmunaem Alaran (Syria) - Mining Engineering - 3rd Year
METU is a different place, once I enter the campus I feel that I am in a unique world that contains every reason of comfort. Despite the advanced level of teaching and hard homeworks, we enjoy working hard at such amazing university.
Penet Kokalari (Albania) - Political Science and Public Administration - Graduated
I found a very caring and homely environment. Living in an amazing campus is the best part of it.I lived 4 of the best years of my life. I know that ODTÜ will always be my second home.
Naveed Naiemi (Afghanistan) - Civil Engineering - 4
th
Year
I love METU-Ankara because of its environment and the facilities it provides to the students. This is the university where one does not feel being away from home.
S.M.Shahid Hasan (Bangladesh) - Physics Education - 5th Year
METU is the best place to build your career. I am proud to be a METUAN. METU is more than a university
Francisca Navas Morales (Ecuador) - Food Engineering - 4
th
Year
What surprised me the most about METU is the people. Some days you will struggle with the Turkish language, but all the people are so kind and “warm-blooded”, that solving those issues becomes easy. Academically is hard, as any other excellent university, but culturally is very enriching. I come from Ecuador, a country that is very different in culture and I have to say that overall METU has provided me with the technical knowledge but also, a wide perspective of the mixture of cultures. As Turkey, METU is the perfect combination of western and eastern influences and I am very happy that I was able to be part of it.
Adilet Talasbayev (Kazakhstan) - Physics - 4thYear
METU is where I feel belong to. Its authentic atmosphere and culture within an excellent academic curricula make it unique. Affordable living price makes it easier to focus on your studies and doesn’t worry about irrelevant issues so that we can gain a high-quality education. And of course, the campus - it is fantastic. I am truly happy to have a chance to study here and experience everything happened here.
Feyza Arberk (The United Kingdom) – Gender & Women’s Studies - Masters
METU is not only an amazing university, but it is a place where you can freely express who you are and find who you want to become.
Sina Samadi (Iran) - City and Regional Planning - 4
th
Year
ODTU Ankara Campus would be where you get the best oxygen in town and with its very walkable corridors, it simply creates a stunning and absolutely refreshing scene, that early autumn or spring morning when you're running through it to grab a coffee or tea before that 08:40 lecture in a faculty building full of character and genuine style. There you will get to be in touch with the best academic team in town, who will really help you out to learn and to orient in the field you take interest in. Having all that, along with other students at METU, one can gain a rather good understanding of Turkey and Ankara. No one can deny though that there will be tough times and hardship while being a part of this fine establishment, then again, it would be one of the better places to spend times like that.
Muhamad Abiyyu Ali Putra (Indonesia) - Civil Engineering - 3rd Year
All of the teachers that I've encountered in METU so far are really qualified in their subject and they are really open to answering all of our questions very clearly. Trust me you won't regret the distance you've traveled from your own country to come here and get such a high quality of education that METU provides.
Azer Hagverdiyev (Azerbaijan) - Mining Engineering - 3
rd
Year
METU is the place I feel valuable, free and happy.
Reyhan Danu Rahman (Indonesia) - Computer Engineering - 4
th
Year
METU is like a city inside a city. In addition of the massive yet beautiful area of METU, it has everything you need as a "METU citizen", like the market, shopping center, restaurants, sports center, banks, barbers, and a lot more. Besides being the top university in Turkey, METU also offers a bunch of clubs that you can join to explore your talents and interests further. I have no regret of being part of METU.
Hassanin Risha (Egypt) - Geological Engineering - 3
rd
Year
METU teaches me how to be both successful and open-minded student. Having great facilities at METU helps me to learn many experiences that I have never had before. Such important experience is to be a wise student. In short, I am really proud of being a METU student.
METU students, who are willing to contribute to this page, can send their testimonials to iso [at] metu.edu.tr
Share
Tweet
Son Güncelleme:
30/01/2026 - 15:07
Üniversiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupınar Bulvarı No:1, 06800 Çankaya/Ankara © ORTA DOĞU TEKNİK ÜNİVERSİTESİ ANKARA KAMPUSU