Student Experiences | International Students Office
Skip to main content
Student Experiences
ODTÜ in Brief
About ODTÜ
360° ODTÜ
About Ankara
Brochures & Flyers
Student Experiences
Share
Tweet
Last Updated:
30/01/2026 - 15:16
English
Türkçe
Listen
As an international student at METU, I've discovered that life here is more than just attending classes. It's a vibrant community of students from different backgrounds, cultures, and interests. METU offers a wide range of clubs and societies catering to everyone's interests, from drama to robotics. For those who love sports, the campus has excellent facilities. Additionally, socializing is an essential part of student life here. You'll have plenty of opportunities to make friends and build connections through various social events and activities on campus. So, if you're looking for a university where you can pursue your passions, make friends, and enjoy student life to the fullest, METU is the perfect place for you!
Studying at METU has been an incredible journey of development, education, and cultural exposure. The University's commitment to academics and diversity has provided me a stimulating environment to thrive. The dedicated and knowledgeable faculty members have pushed the boundaries of my knowledge. Beyond the class, I have had the privilege of interacting with a vibrant community of students from different backgrounds, fostering friendships and cultural harmony. METU has truly flourished my skills, knowledge, and global perspective needed to succeed in today's world.
I've met students from diverse countries and hues,
Their cultures and traditions are a beautiful fuse.
In METU's vibrant community, we're all having a blast,
Making new friends and memories to last.
From clubs to events, there's never a dull year,
The social life here is something to cheer.
So if you're looking for a place to grow,
METU's the place to be, don't you know?
I hope this lyrical rhyme will do,
To give prospective applicants a clue,
That METU's academic rigor and diverse culture,
Will make them a well-rounded, global future.
I remember the time when I was looking for an advisor professor with research interests aligned with my interests. I was offered a position in different laboratories of the universities to which I applied, and METU Engineered Biomicrosystems Laboratory (EBL) was one of them. I chose METU mainly because of my advisor professor, but after I started my studies and research at METU, I was amazed by the high educational and research standards of the university. The courses are unbelievably competitive; the level of the material you learn in the courses and the exams are at the same level as top-ranked universities. The professors here are among the best in their fields, and most importantly, they embrace the diverse research interests of their students. You can always see professors from different departments cooperating on a project to meet the multidisciplinary nature of the research. And finally, the campus atmosphere is so friendly that you never feel like a foreigner.
METU is known for its challenging academic program that demands a lot from students. This is just because the university has high academic standards and expects students to meet those expectations. METU has a very strong reputation for academic excellence. Its campus, its size is so magnificent that it is one of the main factors that lure students from all over the world. The university has a lot of facilities, such as labs, libraries, dormitories, and student clubs. It is a great pleasure to have a METU experience.
I found the perfect balance between good academics and healthy social life. The academic staff is student-friendly and provides students with the assistance they demand. Then, I came across extracurricular activities that fit my interest and even discovered new centers of interest. Most astonishing is that there is always something to do and opportunities to explore through the multiple organizations, programs, and activities provided. At METU, I do not feel like I am only training myself for my professional life but also forging a splendid personality. I wanted a memorable international experience and quality training to make my university years the best years of my life, and I found METU.
From the moment I arrived at METU, I felt a sense of excitement and wonder about what the next four years would hold for me. I was not disappointed. I must say that the atmosphere at METU is very lively and engaging. There is always something going on, and the campus is always buzzing with activity. However, the academic workload can be challenging, and it requires a lot of dedication and hard work to keep up with the curriculum. But, I must say that the academic challenge is worth it, as it has helped me develop my critical thinking, problem-solving. Overall, my experience as a first-year student at METU has been nothing short of amazing. I am excited to continue my journey here and to see what the future holds for me. If you are considering METU as your future university, I can assure you that you will not be disappointed.
Being a student at METU is a delightful experience. The campus is a magical place where some of my fondest memories have occurred. At METU, I am surrounded by a dynamic community of inspirational leaders who have positively impacted my life. Furthermore, I learn from world-class professors who constantly seek knowledge and inspire me to grow as an individual. I'm grateful to be part of such a diverse and intellectually stimulating university.
One of the best things I discovered about METU after arriving here was that it's not just a university; it's a whole ecosystem that helps you grow and flourish in whatever life path you want. Even as an international student, the opportunities you come across are endless if you know where to look. The people and the teachers have been really accommodating during my time here so far. And not just career-wise, but as a person, METU helped me discover so much about myself: it gave me a better sense of direction and a better perspective on the things I want in life. To sum it up, I would say this place becomes a part of you. A part you would cherish for the rest of your life.
METU is a place where I feel surrounded by passionate and innovative people who motivate me to become a better version of myself and strive for perfection. I'm glad I made the decision to join METU.
Being a student at METU's international joint program with a German university, I have observed a completely global culture. We study in a class with students from all over the world, which has made our time at METU full of new and unique experiences. I believe that METU provides a platform for its students to grow academically, morally, and socially. With the world and the needs of the community changing at an ever-increasing rate, METU aims to be open to change, to adapt, innovate and keep pace with the goals of society and the wider world. I am truly thankful to be a part of this outclass university.
METU, as the best university in Türkiye, is the place where you can find a multicultural environment of students from different countries. Being accepted at the METU bachelor's program of Chemical Engineering gave me the opportunity to explore my potential and fulfill my dreams as well. I found a very caring and homely environment at METU, where the faculty staff and the people are exceptionally supportive. I am grateful to all my METU Professors as well as the other staff.
Looking for a world-class institution that offers great exposure and promising career prospects? METU is the place. I couldn't have asked for a better learning experience.
Studying at METU offers access to a wide range of opportunities that are not only academic but helpful in day-to-day life. The wide range of nationals on the campus provides a unique taste of the world's different cultures. The skills taught on campus enable students to navigate the tough and competitive world outside. The state-of-the-art infrastructure in the university is especially perfect for graduate students who wish to undertake their research in the numerous courses available on campus. Definitely a top-quality campus.
METU Ankara not only provides a high quality of education but also gives you the opportunity to interact with all nationalities and support you with long life experience; here, your voice is heard, and your thoughts do matter.... here YOU CAN make a difference!
METU is a huge campus offering high-quality education and numerous sports and arts facilities for its students. The two semesters that I've spent at METU so far taught me how to be an independent person and how to live on my own in a multicultural environment. Even though I encountered some communication problems due to my level of Turkish language, it has been a perfect opportunity for me to learn even more!
I found a very caring and homely environment. Living on an amazing campus is the best part of it. I lived 4 of the best years of my life. I know that ODTÜ will always be my second home.
What surprised me the most about METU was the people. Some days you will struggle with the Turkish language, but all the people are so kind and “warm-blooded” that solving those issues becomes easy. Academically is hard, like any other excellent university, but culturally is very enriching. I come from Ecuador, a country that is very different in culture and I have to say that overall, METU has provided me with the technical knowledge but also a wide perspective of the mixture of cultures. As Türkiye, METU is the perfect combination of Western and Eastern influences, and I am very happy I could be part of it.
METU is where I feel I belong. Its authentic atmosphere and culture within an excellent academic curriculum make it unique. Affordable living price makes it easier to focus on your studies and doesn’t worry about irrelevant issues so that we can gain a high-quality education. And, of course, the campus - it is fantastic. I am truly happy to have a chance to study and experience everything that happened here.
ODTU Ankara Campus would be where you get the best oxygen in town and with its very walkable corridors, it simply creates a stunning and absolutely refreshing scene that early autumn or spring morning when you're running through it to grab a coffee or tea before that 08:40 lecture in a faculty building full of character and genuine style. There you will get to be in touch with the best academic team in town, who will really help you to learn and to orient in the field you take interest in. Having all that, along with other students at METU, one can better understand Türkiye and Ankara. No one can deny that there will be tough times and hardships while being a part of this fine establishment; then again, it would be one of the better places to spend times like that.
All of the teachers that I've encountered in METU so far are really qualified in their subject, and they are really open to answering all of our questions very clearly. Trust me; you won't regret the distance you've traveled from your own country to come here and get the high-quality education METU provides.
METU teaches me how to be both a successful and open-minded student. Having great facilities at METU helps me learn many experiences I have never had before. Such an important experience is to be a wise student. In short, I am really proud of being a METU student.
METU students, who are willing to contribute to this page, can send their testimonials to iso [at] metu.edu.tr
Üniversiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupınar Bulvarı No:1, 06800 Çankaya/Ankara © ORTA DOĞU TEKNİK ÜNİVERSİTESİ ANKARA KAMPUSU