Health Care Services and Insurance | International Students Office
Skip to main content
Health Care Services and Insurance
Useful Information
Residence Permit
Tuition Fee
Health Care Services and Insurance
Scholarship Opportunities
Accommodation
Foreign National Identity Number
Cost of Living
Work Permits
Share
Tweet
Last Updated:
23/09/2024 - 13:02
English
Türkçe
Listen
Health Care Services
The first resort for students regarding their health and psychological problems is the Health and Guidance Center (HGC). Students apply with their Student ID Card to the Patient Reception Desk. The student's initial examination, tests, and treatment are carried out at the HGC within the capacity and in accordance with the regulations. In cases that call for further examination, tests and treatment, state and university or private hospitals are resorted to. There is a treatment fee as determined by the Council of Higher Education. This fee must be paid for each visit to a physician. For detailed information, you can see
http://srm.metu.edu.tr/en/
.
Health Insurance
Students
have to
have valid health insurance during their stay in Türkiye. Please pay attention to following your insurance process in order not to face any problems or pay any debt later.
Once your initial health insurance expires, you have to renew your health insurance inform Migration Office regarding your health insurance renewal. Please do not forget to renew your health insurance for it might produce unfortunate legal and health problems.
Governmental health insurance (General Health Insurance/GHI/GSS) available for international students is
strongly recommended
by the university or you can have private health insurance.
In order to have GSS, you need to apply online via e-devlet
within 3 months following your registration (first registration to the university) and after receiving your foreign national ID number. (If you do not apply within this period, you will not have the chance to apply to GSS again)
For the 2024 year, the annual GSS premium is around 9600 TL. To apply for GSS, Once you receive your residence permit card, you should follow the below-listed steps
Inform the ISO about your foreign ID number so that we can update your information on the system
Visit a PTT Office and get an e-devlet password
Visit
www.turkiye.gov.tr
and log in with your foreign ID number and e-devlet password
Search for "
Yabancı Uyruklu Öğrencilerin GSS Başvurusu ve Takibi
" and then click "
başvuru yap
" (apply) link
After your application, wait for 2-3 days and visit the same page to check your application status and make sure that it is approved
Visit
https://www.turkiye.gov.tr/sosyal-guvenlik-sosyal-guvenlik-kurumu-kart-i...
, login with your e-devlet password, select "
Diğer Tahsilatlar
"-"
GSS Prim
" and enter your foreign ID number that starts with 99 and then make the payment online
After 30 days following your payment, visit
https://www.turkiye.gov.tr/spas-mustahaklik-sorgulama
and get a proof document (
müstehaklık
). The document should state "
Müstehaktır, provizyon alabilir
."
You can visit the Ankara Migration Office and submit this document along with a petition. You do not need to take an appointment to submit it. Just visit the "
evrak
" unit of the Ankara Migration Office.
Students who do not apply for the GSS within the 3-month legal period for the application cannot benefit from this right afterward.
Therefore, students are strongly advised not to ignore this procedure. If you change your program or your program level (e.g. from undergraduate to master’s) you have the right to apply again.
***International students who have valid health insurance in Türkiye through their parents or by bilateral agreements are to submit a document proving this to the Migration Management.
Üniversiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupınar Bulvarı No:1, 06800 Çankaya/Ankara © ORTA DOĞU TEKNİK ÜNİVERSİTESİ ANKARA KAMPUSU