Registrations of Newly Admitted International Students to Undergraduate Programs-2019 | International Students Office
Skip to main content
Registrations of Newly Admitted International Students to Undergraduate Programs-2019
English
Türkçe
Listen
University registration of the international students newly-admitted to the undergraduate programs will be on the
5-6th
and
9-10th of September 2019
.
The registration venue is the
Kümbet Hall
in the ODTÜ Culture and Convention Center.
Detailed information about the required documents for the registration is given in the pre-arrival guide, which you can find through this
link
Note: As the English proficiency exam will be on the 9th of September, students who do not have a TOEFL/IELTS/PTE score should come to the registration on the 5th and 6th of September and complete their registration before the exam date. Students with valid TOEFL/IELTS/PTE academic results are recommended to come to the registration on the 9th and 10th of September as they will not take the proficiency exam and will directly start their departmental courses.
Required Documents for Registration:
If your documents are not in Turkish or English, the
translations
of the documents should also be submitted. Translations by translation offices are also accepted. You should also bring one
copy
of each document.
1. Original exam result(s)
which you used while applying (Please bring your user code and password for the online score check of SAT/ACT/Qudurat/WAEC/IB/TOEFL/IELTS/PTE if you submit any of them)
2. Original high school diploma and transcript
3. Tuition fee payment receipt
of the Fall semester
4. Equivalence letter
(or the paper showing that you have submitted your application to get this letter)
5. Passport:
During the registration, passports should be shown to the International Students Advisors, and copies of the pages that include "identification information", "visa" and "the page with stamp showing the entry date" should be submitted. Students who have been living in Turkey for at least one year with an Education Residence Permit should give the copies of their Student Residence Permit. Students who have a diplomatic passport or a "blue card" do not need to submit visa or residence permit. (In order to have a smooth residence permit application, we recommend you to have a passport which is valid for the whole duration of your studies here at ODTÜ, that is at least 4 or 5 years. So please extend the validity of your passport so that it will cover all your years at ODTÜ).
6. One color portrait photo
: You are also recommended to bring 12 photos since you need extra photos for dormitory applications
Share
Tweet
Last Updated:
19/08/2019 - 11:19
Üniversiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupınar Bulvarı No:1, 06800 Çankaya/Ankara © ORTA DOĞU TEKNİK ÜNİVERSİTESİ ANKARA KAMPUSU