Application Criteria Updates for the 2019-2020 Academic Year Applications | International Students Office
Skip to main content
Application Criteria Updates for the 2019-2020 Academic Year Applications
English
Türkçe
Listen
Application criteria which can be used by the international students in their application to the undergraduate programs at METU Ankara Campus have been updated. The following changes/additions have been made. The full list of the application criteria is available
here
.
Updated Criterion
Old Criterion
American College Testing (ACT)
A minimum score of
27
out of 36.
A minimum score of 26 out of 36.
SAT
A minimum total score of 1200 out of 1600 in "Math" and "Evidence-Based Reading and Writing (Critical Reading in older version)", with a minimum "Math" score of 680 out of 800 for the Faculties of Engineering, Architecture and the scientific programs of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences
OR
an average of
700
in at least 3 subjects in the SAT Subject (SAT2) test relevant to the program applied for (Math2 must be among subjects for the Faculties of Engineering, Architecture and the scientific programs of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.
A minimum total score of 1200 out of 1600 in "Math" and "Evidence-Based Reading and Writing (Critical Reading in older version)", with a minimum "Math" score of 680 out of 800 for the Faculties of Engineering, Architecture and the scientific programs of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences
OR
an average of 770 in at least 3 subjects in the SAT Subject (SAT2) test relevant to the program applied for (Math2 must be among subjects for the Faculties of Engineering, Architecture and the scientific programs of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.
International Baccalaureate (IB)
A diploma of International Baccalaureate with a min. total score of 33
(at least one High Level-HL course relevant to the program applied for should be taken.)
A diploma of International Baccalaureate with a min. total score of 33.
Afghanistan
Having obtained the minimum %90 percent of the maximum score in Kankor exam in the application year.
N/A
Bulgaria
A minimum graduation score of
5.5 (excellent) out of 6
in General Secondary Education Certificate (
Matura
) –
The second subject should be Math for the Faculties of Engineering, Architecture and the scientific programs of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and it should be a relevant subject for other programs.
A minimum graduation score of 90 % in General Secondary Education Certificate (Matura).
Denmark
A minimum score of 10 out of
12
in Student Examination (
Studentereksamen
)
A minimum score of 10 out of 13 in Student Examination (
Studentereksamen
)
Finland
A minimum score of
M (magna cum laude
approbatur
)
in the National Matriculation Examination (
Ylioppilastutkinto / studenteksamen
) exam
A minimum score of 5 out of 7 in the National Matriculation Examination (Ylioppilastutkinto / studenteksamen) exam
Indonesia
A minimum score of 53 out of 60 in Ujian Nasional (UN) exam
or
a minimum score of
8.5
in the related subjects in
Surat Keterangan Hasil Ujian Nasional
(SKHUN) exam.
A minimum score of 53 out of 60 in Ujian Nasional (UN) exam
or
a minimum score of 85 in the related subjects in
Surat Keterangan Hasil Ujian Nasional
(SKHUN) exam.
Sudan
General Secondary Education Certificate with a minimum exam score of 95 % in the stream related to the program applied for.
N/A
Share
Tweet
Last Updated:
12/02/2019 - 18:21
Üniversiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupınar Bulvarı No:1, 06800 Çankaya/Ankara © ORTA DOĞU TEKNİK ÜNİVERSİTESİ ANKARA KAMPUSU