IMPLEMENTATION PRINCIPLES REGARDING ANKARA CAMPUS TUITION DISCOUNTS OR EXEMPTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL GRADUATE STUDENTS
(Senate Decision - 26th of April, 2022)
Ten percent of the total number of international students (those students without the Republic of Turkey or the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus nationality) registered in graduate programs can receive a tuition discount or exemption within the scope of these implementation principles.
Below-listed groups are outside the scope of the tuition fee discounts/exemptions.
Students whose tuition fees are covered by other institutions
Students registered in the academic deficiency program
Students in their first semesters in case they are conditionally accepted to the program
Students registered in the evening programs
Students who are registered in the international joint degree programs
A tuition fee discount refers to an exemption from the fifty percent of the tuition fee of the relevant semester, whereas a tuition fee exemption refers to a full exemption from the tuition fee of the relevant semester.
The fundamental criterion in the distribution of tuition fee discounts/exemptions is the academic success of the student. Tuition fee discounts/exemptions are valid for one academic year (two semesters).
For the students who are newly admitted to their programs, documents such as exams and diplomas submitted during the application are taken into consideration in the evaluation for tuition fee discounts/exemptions. Tuition fee discounts/exemptions of students who receive a tuition fee discount/exemption in their first semesters in the program are subject to reevaluation at the end of that academic year in line with provisions in Article 6.
For those graduate students who are continuing in their programs, the following provisions will apply regarding eligibility for a tuition fee discount/exemption:
Being within the program’s normal duration of education,
At the end of the spring semester, having a CGPA of 3.00 for a tuition fee discount, and 3.50 for a tuition fee exemption.
Having passing grades in thesis-related courses (for students in the thesis phase)
At the beginning of each academic year, Graduate School Administrative Boards distribute tuition fee discounts/exemptions to a maximum of ten percent of the students who are newly admitted to the programs in their graduate school. The list of the students is presented to the President’s Office by the first day of the tuition fee payment dates of the related semester announced in the academic calendar. No separate evaluation is made for those who are admitted to the graduate programs for the spring semesters. These students are subject to evaluation in line with Article 8 after they complete their first semester in the program.
At the end of each academic year, the following procedures are implemented for the next academic year:
International Students Office (ISO) calculates and defines the tuition fee discount/exemption quotas. The total university quota is distributed among the graduate schools taking into consideration the total number of international students in each graduate school. If necessary, quotas are transferred from one graduate school to another. Then, ISO shares the graduate school-specific quotas and the list of eligible students with the graduate schools.
In line with the quotas and lists received from the ISO, Graduate School Administrative Boards distribute the tuition fee discounts/exemptions among the eligible students, and the list of the students is presented to the President’s Office by the first day of the tuition fee payment dates of the related semester announced in the academic calendar.
The lists of the students received in line with Article 7 and Article 8 are presented to the University Administrative Board for the official board decision to be taken.
Last updated
23/12/2025 - 16:54