Diploma Supplement
What is a Diploma Supplement?
The Diploma Supplement (DS) is a document attached to a higher education diploma aiming at improving international ‘transparency’ and at facilitating the academic and professional recognition of qualifications (diplomas, degrees, certificates etc.). It is designed to provide a description of nature, level, context, content, and status of the studies that were successfully completed by the individual named on the original qualification to which this supplement is appended.
The DS is produced by national institutions according to a template that has been developed by a Joint European Commission - Council of Europe - UNESCO working party that tested and refined it.
Implementation at Middle East Technical University
Middle East Technical University has been awarded Erasmus University Charter in 2003 and since then has been participating in the Erasmus program. Starting with 2005, diploma supplement is being issued automatically and free of charge to all METU graduates of first, second, and third cycle programs
Samples:
Pre-Bachelor's
Bachelor's
Non-Thesis Master's
Master's
Post-Bachelor's Doctoral
Post-Master's Doctoral
What it is not?
It is not a Curriculum Vitae.
It is not a substitute for the original qualification or a transcript.
It is not an automatic system that guarantees recognition.
What does the Diploma Supplement offer to Students?
A diploma that is more readable and easily comparable abroad.
A precise description of their academic career and the competencies acquired during the study period.
An objective description of their achievements and competencies
Easier access to opportunities for work or further studies abroad
Why is the Diploma Supplement Needed?
New qualifications proliferate worldwide and countries are constantly changing their qualification systems and educational structures under the impact of rapid economic, political and technological change. An increasing number of mobile citizens are seeking fair recognition of their qualifications. The non-recognition and poor evaluation of qualifications is now a global problem. Since original credentials alone do not provide sufficient information, it is very difficult to gauge the level and function of qualification without a detailed appropriate explanation.
The Diploma Supplement is a response to these since it aids mobility, access, and lifelong learning and promotes fair and informed judgments about qualifications.
ECTS
The European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS) is a student-centered system based on the student workload required to achieve the objectives of a program, objectives preferably specified in terms of the learning outcomes and competencies to be acquired.
Why Introduce ECTS?
ECTS makes study programs easy to read and compare for all students, local and foreign. ECTS facilitates mobility and academic recognition. ECTS helps universities to organize and revise their study programs. ECTS can be used across a variety of programs and modes of delivery. ECTS makes European higher education more attractive for students from abroad.
What are the Key Features of ECTS?
ECTS is based on the principle that 60 credits measure the workload of a full-time student during one academic year. The student workload of a full-time study program in Europe amounts in most cases to around 1500-1800 hours per year and in those cases, one credit stands for around 25 to 30 working hours.
Credits in ECTS can only be obtained after successful completion of the work required and appropriate assessment of the learning outcomes achieved. Learning outcomes are sets of competences, expressing what the student will know, understand or be able to do after completion of a process of learning, long or short.
Student workload in ECTS consists of the time required to complete all planned learning activities such as attending lectures, seminars, independent and private study, preparation of projects and examinations.
Credits are allocated to all educational components of a study program (such as modules, courses, placements, dissertation work, etc.) and reflect the quantity of work each component requires to achieve its specific objectives or learning outcomes in relation to the total quantity of work necessary to complete a full year of study successfully.
Implementation at Middle East Technical University
Middle East Technical University has been awarded Erasmus University Charter in 2003 and since then has been participating in the Erasmus program. Starting with 2005, all METU graduates of first, second and third cycle programs will get Diploma Supplement automatically and free of charge. In addition, ECTS has been established for all programs offered at METU.
Useful link:
EU Education and Training Programs:
http://ec.europa.eu/education/
Last updated
12/01/2026 - 12:51