Educational Form
Graduate students or students who have canceled their registration can apply to Educational Form via using the "Educational Form Request Form" available at
application.metu.edu.tr
. Directives about the application program are as follows:
Who can use this program?
Educational Form can be taken by the students with the semester status of not-registered and by the graduates.
Users with an active METU username and password can make their application with their METU student ID number and e-mail account. (Example:
e12345@metu.edu.tr
)
If your account is inactive, you will use the “Inactive User” link and log in to the system.
What is an Inactive User?
Inactive Users are students with the semester status of not-registered and by the graduates whose usernames have been closed. These users have to register with another e-mail address since they cannot log in with their METU username and password.
What should I do if my student ID number cannot be found in the system? (For inactive users)
If your student ID number cannot be found in the system, you cannot log in to the application program. An e-mail will be sent automatically to the Registrar’s Office regarding the issue. The Registrar’s Office will check the records and will inform you about your student ID number.
How can I receive Educational Form?
Educational Form without any extra explanation will be instantly prepared by the system with a QR code on it and you will be able to download it as a PDF file.
The document is valid for one month. Within this period, it can be verified through the QR code on the document.
If you apply for a new document within the validity period of a previous document, the previous document will continue to be verifiable within the validity period. However, the verifying institution will be notified about the issuance of a more current document.
If you need a personalized note on the document (such as scholarship, tuition fee payment, grading system, English Proficiency Exam result), you will fill the related fields on the application page.
Advisors in the Registrar's Office will be notified about the document requests with a personalized note for approval and preparation.
The registrar's Office will prepare the document and the student will be notified via e-mail that the document is ready and downloadable.
The student can track the status of his/her application via the “Educational Form Request" link on the application program.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
1. Is it possible to make multiple applications?
If you have requested an Educational Form with a personalized note, you cannot make a new application until the Registrar's Office approves and prepares your document.
If you have requested an Educational Form without a personalized note, you can make a new application. However, if you apply for a new document within the validity period of a previous document, the previous document will continue to be verifiable within the validity period. However, the verifying institution will be notified about the issuance of a more current document.
2. Can I submit the same PDF file to more than one institution?
Yes, you can. You do not need to make multiple applications for each institution that you want to submit the document. Within the validity period, you may download as many documents as you want and submit them to the institutions.
3. I have downloaded the Educational Form without a personalized note. But I want to get a new one with a personalized note. What should I do?
You may make a new request by clicking the "New Application" button.
4. When will my Educational Form with a personalized note be ready to download?
You may download your document within 1 working day following your application. You can track the status of your application via the “Educational Form Request" link on the application program and via the e-mail to be sent to you by the Registrar's Office.
5. I want to get an Educational Form. What should I do?
You can access the application program via clicking on the “Educational Form Request" link on the student.metu.edu.tr address. You may proceed and finalize your application by following the “Educational Form Support” Menu.
You may use the “Send Feedback” button in the program or fill the
Online Contact Form
regarding your questions and problems about the Educational Form.
Last updated
12/01/2026 - 14:39