Summer School
IMPORTANT DATES
16 - 23 JUNE 2025
Tuition fee payment for Summer School (Basic English Unit)
30 JUNE - 02 JULY 2025
Summer School tuition fee refund applications (Basic English Unit)
30 JUNE 2025
Summer School Classes begin (Basic English Unit) (120 hours)
09 - 11 JULY 2025
Tuition fee payment, Registration and Advisor Approvals for Summer School (higher vocational school programs, undergraduate, and graduate programs)
08 - 11 JULY 2025
Special Student Applications and Registrations for Summer School
14 JULY 2025
Summer School Classes begin (higher vocational school programs, undergraduate and graduate programs)
14 - 25 JULY 2025
Summer School tuition fee refund applications (higher vocational school programs, undergraduate and graduate programs)
SUMMER SCHOOL DIRECTIVE
Middle East Technical University Summer School Directive can be found at the following address:
https://oidb2.metu.edu.tr/en/middle-east-technical-university-directive-summer-school
OPENED/CLOSED COURSES
The courses scheduled to be offered in the Summer School can be found at:
https://oibs2.metu.edu.tr/View_Program_Course_Details_64/
According to the decision of the University Administrative Board, the minimum course capacity in the Summer School is 20. If the number of registered students for a course is below 20 (except for the courses that must be kept open through the justified decision of the Administrative Board of a Faculty/Graduate School/Technical Vocational School of Higher Education), the course is closed. Thus, a course may be closed upon examination after the end of the registration period.
COURSES OFFERED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS
Due to the limited capacity of the courses offered by the Department of Mathematics, it is not always possible to meet the high demand. For registration provisions set by the Department of Mathematics (priorities, course capacity update hours, etc), students must also follow the announcements on
http://math.metu.edu.tr/
For courses dropped during interactive registration, capacity information will be updated three times a day at 09.00, 13.00, and 16.00. Among the below-mentioned courses, whose capacity is full, students can add the related courses after the capacity information is updated. This procedure is also valid for group changes.
SUMMER SCHOOL ACADEMIC CALENDAR
All dates for interactive registration, advisor approvals, tuition fee payment, tuition fee reimbursement and other similar dates can be found in the summer school academic calendar at the following address:
https://oidb2.metu.edu.tr/en/academic-calendar
INTERACTIVE REGISTRATION PROCEDURE
Interactive registration involves the following steps:
FOR BASIC ENGLISH UNIT STUDENTS
Students who have paid the tuition fee will be officially registered by the Basic English Unit.
FOR
HIGHER VOCATIONAL SCHOOL PROGRAMS
, UNDERGRADUATE, AND GRADUATE PROGRAM STUDENTS
Course selection
Tuition fee payment
Advisor approval
If any of these steps are incomplete after the registration period ends, the student will be considered
not registered
for the summer school.
After adding the desired course(s) in the interactive registration program, you will see a pop-up message on the screen when you click the “Request Advisor Approval” button. You can send your advisor approval request after making the payment.
Note 1: If you add a new course after receiving advisor approval and making the payment, you must also pay the contribution fee for the newly added course in order to send the advisor approval request again.
Note 2: If you drop a course after receiving advisor approval and making the payment, you can send the advisor approval directly without making an additional payment. You may request a refund for the overpaid tuition fee during the tuition refund application period.
THE REGISTRATION PROGRAM
Students must register online through the following URL:
https://register.metu.edu.tr/
The Registration program is opened at 1:00 p.m. on the first day of interactive registrations and closed at 5:00 p.m. on the last day.
The Advisor Approval Program is opened at 2:00 p.m. on the first day of interactive registrations and closed at 23.59 p.m. on the last day.
The Sequential Registration System is not applied for Summer School
. All the students can enter the system (on-campus or from outside campus; cabled or wi-fi) simultaneously.
Students must not open more than one registration window; otherwise, errors in registration are likely to occur.
ADVISOR APPROVALS
During the registration for summer school, students will add the courses they want to take and finalize the registration process by clicking the "Request Registration Approval" button so that the request for approval along with the list of the added courses is sent to the Advisor Approval Program. Students who did not click the "Request Registration Approval" button will not be able to receive advisor approval.
By viewing Advisor Approval Program, the advisors will be able to see the students requesting approval and approve the requests without the need for the students’ passwords. An email that will inform the students that the approval has been done (with the following message: Your registration has been approved: “Kayıt Onayınız Yapılmıştır”) will be sent to the students automatically.
When the advisor needs to contact the students about the issues related to the registration, s/he can click on the button “Request Correction” in the Advisor Approval Program interface. To do so, s/he will send an email titled “Registration approval correction”.  In this case, the student will need to make the necessary corrections and send a request for approval again. At the end of this process, the students will have finalized the registration and the registration approval in the online environment.
Our students need to be in contact with their advisors while handling the issues related to the registration and the approval processes. In order not to experience any problems and inconvenience, it is essential that this change in the registration process be kept in mind. Our students need to make sure that, within the registration approval period, they have received the email (stating: “Your registration has been approved”), which is sent automatically.
Registrations without an advisor APPROVAL are not valid.
REGISTRATION PC ROOMS AND WORKING HOURS
Designated staff will be available in the PC rooms to help the students with the use of the registration program.
The PC Rooms made available for registrations will be announced on the following web pages:
https://bidb.metu.edu.tr/kayit
(Turkish)
https://cc.metu.edu.tr/register
(English)
Statistics on occupancy rate information of PC Rooms can be accessed via METU Mobile Application.
STUDENT PASSWORDS
As the usernames and passwords
on
the central servers are required for registrations, students should check the validity of their passwords before interactive registrations start. In case of a problem with their accounts, they should follow the steps on
https://faq.cc.metu.edu.tr/faq/i-forgot-my-password-where-can-i-apply
.
CONTACT UNITS FOR REGISTRATION PROBLEMS
For problems concerning user codes/passwords assigned on the central servers, IT Support Team at the Computer Center (Floor B, Room B14;
https://bidb.metu.edu.tr/en/settlement-plan
) are to be consulted with student ID cards during working hours (9:00-12:30; 13:30-17:00).
For information regarding the criteria for taking a course (such as the department offering the course, the course category and capacity, the minimum GPA requirement, etc), the secretary of the department offering the course is to be consulted.
For tuition fees, the Tuition Fee Office (Above Çatı Cafe, next to the Industrial Engineering) is to be consulted.
For library debts, the Directorate of Library and Documentation is to be consulted.
If it is necessary to make changes concerning registration after Advisor Approvals, the advisor is to be consulted to cancel the approval.
Questions concerning registration may be sent via email to
register@metu.edu.tr
.Please include the error message you received when sending your inquiries, or your message along with your user information in the screenshot.
REGISTRATION PROGRAM CHECKS
The registration program will run some
checks in rules and regulations
on a student basis and send warning messages to students when necessary.
For additional explanations on the warning messages given in the registration program, please visit
https://oidb2.metu.edu.tr/en/frequent-error-messages-registration-system
Registration for courses is made in accordance with the
provisions
(previous grade obtained in the course, the department offering the course, section, last name , quota, etc.) set by departmental users.
The registration program will run
prerequisite checks
for applicable courses. As required by regulations, prerequisite checks are run on course basis (as defined in the catalog), not on a department/program basis. If the prerequisite provision is not fulfilled for a course, the system will not allow registration for that course.
Elective course categories
in the curriculum of departments are indicated below. Definitions may vary across departments.
Technical/Non-Technical Elective, Departmental/Non-Departmental Elective, Restricted Elective,
Elective, Free Elective
Students may register for elective courses only under the categories indicated in the curriculum of their departments.
Courses are defined in the Student Affairs Information System (SAIS) on a departmental basis and according to the category definitions. A course can be added either in the status defined by the system or as a “Free Elective” (for departments using this definition).
Information on course categories is available at:
https://oibs2.metu.edu.tr/View_Student_Course_Categories_178/
METU IT RESOURCES USE POLICY
Information on METU IT Resources Use Policy can be found at:
http://www.metu.edu.tr/it-use-policy
SUMMER SCHOOL TUITION FEES
a)
Department of Basic English (Prep School) 60-Hour Long Summer School Fees
Faculty/Graduate School
Turkish Citizens
(TL)
International Students
(TL)
Architecture, Engineering
1162
3486
Faculty of Economics and Administrative Science
881
2643
Arts and Science (Science Prog.)
826
2478
Faculty of Arts and Science (Arts Prog.)
715
2145
Education
749
2247
ODTÜ SUNY International Joint Programs
47.577,00
47.577,00
b) Fees per credit for undergraduate programs
Faculty
Turkish Citizens
(TL)
International Students
(TL)
Architecture, Engineering
136
408
Faculty of Economics and Administrative Science
103
309
Faculty of Economics and Administrative Science SUNY Programs
103
309
Arts and Science (Science Prog.)
96
288
Faculty of Arts and Science (Arts Prog.)
83
249
Education
87
261
Education SUNY International Joint Programs
87
261
c)
Fees per credit for graduate programs
Graduate School
Turkish Citizens
(TL)
International Students
(TL)
All graduate programs
88
264
All students have to pay tuition fees during summer school.
Summer School tuition fees are calculated per course credit. In other words, the students pay a total tuition fee equivalent to the sum of the departmental credit fee for each course enrolled in. For non-credit courses (excluding Graduate Seminar, Term Project, and Special/Advanced Studies), the tuition fee is to be paid over two credits.
If students in a non-thesis graduate degree evening program take a course from another non-thesis graduate degree evening program, they pay the tuition fee per credit for the course of the other program.
BANK RECEIPTS
Payments must be made to the “On-Line Bank Account Numbers for Tuition Payments” of the banks listed in the “Bank Account Numbers for Tuition Payments” underpayments. When depositing their tuition fee to the bank, students should state their ID numbers, and have this printed on the bank receipt.
There is no wire transfer charge for tuition payments made to “On-Line Bank Account Numbers” from bank branches (in or outside the city).
Students are advised to keep their original bank receipts, as they are obliged to submit them in case of tuition reimbursement with a valid excuse.
TUITION FEE PAYMENT CHECK ON THE REGISTRATION PROGRAM
The data exchange concerning tuition payments is done online by the banks. Students can enter the registration program as soon as they have made the payment.
The registration program checks the students’ payment data. Students who do not make any / full payment cannot enter the registration program.
Students are advised to check the information about their payment at the web address indicated below before registrations start:
https://student.metu.edu.tr/
TUITION FEE REIMBURSEMENT
The tuition fee paid for courses that are not opened or are closed due to the low number of registering students can be reimbursed provided that the student does not miss the “deadline for justifiable tuition fee reimbursement applications” announced in the academic calendar.
In order to receive tuition reimbursement, students need to fill out the form in the following link, scan it after signing, and sent it to
katkipayi@metu.edu.tr
with the payment document. Students in non-thesis graduate evening programs should have the payment document approved by their departments.
Students should fill out the Payback Application Form numbered 409 at the following link
https://student.metu.edu.tr/#/
. The IBAN on the form should be the IBAN number of any bank belonging to the student.
RELATED UNIT AT METU
The Tuition Fee Office (Upfloor of the Çatı Cafe) deals with tuition payments and related issues. Students who request tuition reimbursement with a valid excuse or who have problems with their payments may consult this unit regarding their problems.
PROCEDURES FOR STUDENTS FROM ANKARA CAMPUS WANTING TO TAKE COURSES IN THE SUMMER SCHOOL ON NORTHERN CYPRUS CAMPUS (NCC)
Courses scheduled to be opened in ODTÜ NCC and ODTÜ Ankara Summer Schools can be found at the web address
https://oibs3.metu.edu.tr/View_Program_Course_Details_64/
Students who wish to take courses in NCC Summer School should apply to their Department Chair on Ankara Campus and inform their advisors.
Students must register online through the following URL:
https://register.metu.edu.tr/
Courses cannot be taken from both Ankara and North Cyprus Campuses in the same summer school.
If the course to be taken is offered at the Ankara Campus in the Summer School, it is a priority for the student to take the course at the Ankara Campus.
Students from Ankara Campus who register for courses in NCC Summer School pay the per-credit tuition fee valid for Ankara Campus.
Last updated
03/02/2026 - 12:14