Registrations of Students of SUNY Programs
For detailed information about registrations please see the registration guide of the related semester.
General information about the program can be seen below. For detailed information please see
www.suny.metu.edu.tr
.
NUMERIC AND VERBAL CODES OF THE DEPARTMENTS
Program codes and names are listed below. You will need this information for interactive registrations. During registration, METU-SUNY students should know these codes about the courses they will take.
Global and International Relations- SUNY Binghamton University
315
GIA
English Language Teaching- SUNY New Paltz University
451
TEFL
Business Administration- SUNY Binghamton University
316
BAS
TUITION FEES
Detailed information about payments can be found in the following webpage:
http://suny.metu.edu.tr/odemeler
Note: When paying your tuition fees to the bank, please indicate that you are a student of SUNY program.
ACADEMIC RULES
These students are subject to the regulations of both universities. It is the students' responsibility to know these rules and regulations.
Detailed information can be found under the title Regulations.
The related regulation about Middle East Technical University-State University of New York (SUNY) International Joint Program for Undergraduate Degrees can be found below:
http://oidb.metu.edu.tr/tr/orta-dogu-teknik-universitesi-new-york-eyalet-universitesi-suny-uluslararasi-ortak-lisans
Web Addresses of Related Universities:
Global and International Relations- SUNY Binghamton (
http://www.binghamton.edu
)
English Language Teaching- SUNY New Paltz (
http://www.newpaltz.edu
)
Business Administration- SUNY Binghamton (
http://www.binghamton.edu)
COURSES
Each semester before interactive registration, students should see their coordinators about the courses they will take.
The curriculum for each department can be found in the following URLs:
Global and International Relations- SUNY Binghamton
http://suny.metu.edu.tr/kuresel-siyaset-ve-uluslararasi-iliskiler-gia
English Language Teaching- SUNY New Paltz
http://suny.metu.edu.tr/ingilizce-ogretmenligi-tefl
Business Administration- SUNY Binghamton
http://suny.metu.edu.tr/isletme-bas
INTERACTIVE REGISTRATION/ REGISTRATION AND APPROVAL DATES/ REQUIRED PROCESSES
All information related to registration can be seen from the below URL:
https://oidb.metu.edu.tr/en/kayit-hakkinda-genel-bilgiler
METU-SUNY UOLP students have to meet all requirements related to registration on the aforementioned dates.
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC ENGLISH STUDENTS
students who will study in the Department of Basic English will complete their registration process by paying the tuition fee. They will not register on PC.
FIRST YEAR STUDENTS
They will learn the courses from the department coordinators and will register in PC rooms. The grade of students who are exempted from Must English course (ENG 101) will appear as (EX) on their system.
ALREADY REGISTERED STUDENTS
Students who are already registered may make their registration process after they contact with their program advisors.
CONTACT
For your questions please contact the related person contact information given below:
Department of Basic English
Dr. Ece Selva Küçükoğlu/ 210 39 66,
eceselva@metu.edu.tr
School of Foreign Languages, Department of Basic English
Undergraduate Programs
Global and International Relations- SUNY Binghamton
Prof. Dr. Özlem Tür/ 210 30 81,
tur@metu.edu.tr
Faculty of Administrative Sciences, Department of International Relations
English Language Teaching- SUNY New Paltz
Assoc Prof. Nil Korkut Naykı / 210 75 33,
nkorkut@
metu.edu.tr
Faculty of Education, Department of English Language Teaching
Business Administration- SUNY Binghamton
Prof. Dr. Özlem Özdemir/ 210 30 61,
yozlem@metu.edu.tr
Faculty of Administrative Sciences, Department of Business Administration
Registrar's Office
Please
click here
to see the list of Registrar's Office SUNY program advisors.
SUNY Coordination Office
Central Engineering Building (MM Building). 10. Floor
Middle East Technical University
Üniversiteler Mahallesi Dumlupınar Bulvarı No:1 06800 Ankara
Tel: (312) 210 71 70,  71 13
Fax: (312) 210 7960
suny@metu.edu.tr
Last updated
05/01/2026 - 11:04