App-C Military Document
Students who want to get a document regarding military service can make their application via Appendix-C Document Request available at
student.metu.edu.tr
Who can use this program?
Appendix-C Document can be taken by the students with the semester status of registered or on-leave.
You have to make your application with your METU student ID number and e-mail account. (Example:
e12345@metu.edu.tr
)
Your password is the one defined for your METU student ID number.
If you have any problem with your accounts/passwords, you may use the METU User Account Management page at
https://useraccount.metu.edu.tr
How can I receive my Appendix-C Document?
Appendix-C Documents without any extra explanation will be instantly prepared by the system with a QR code on it and you will be able to download it as a PDF file.
The document is valid for one month. Within this period, it can be verified through the QR code on the document.
If you apply for a new document within the validity period of a previous document, the previous document will continue to be verifiable within the validity period. However, the verifying institution will be notified about the issuance of a more current document.
If you need a personalized note on the document, you will fill the related fields on the application page.
Advisors in the Registrar's Office will be notified about the document requests with a personalized note for approval and preparation.
Registrar's Office will prepare the document and the student will be notified via e-mail that the document is ready and downloadable.
The student can track the status of his/her application via the "Appendix-C Document Request" link on the application program.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
1. Is it possible to make multiple applications?
If you have requested an Appendix-C Document with a personalized note, you cannot make a new application until the Registrar's Office approves and prepares your document.
If you have requested an Appendix-C Document without a personalized note, you can make a new application. However, if you apply for a new document within the validity period of a previous document, the previous document will continue to be verifiable within the validity period. However, the verifying institution will be notified about the issuance of a more current document.
2. Can I submit the same PDF file to more than one institution?
Yes, you can. You do not need to make multiple applications for each institution that you want to submit the document. Within the validity period, you may download as many documents as you want and submit it to the institutions.
3. I have downloaded the Appendix-C Document without a personalized note. But I want to get a new one with a personalized note. What should I do?
You may make a new request clicking the "New Application" button.
4. When will my Appendix-C Document with a personalized note be ready to download?
You may download your document within 1 working day following your application. You can track the status of your application via the "Appendix-C Document Request" link on the application program and via the e-mail to be sent to you by the Registrar's Office.
5. I want to get an Appendix-C Document. What should I do?
You can access the application program via clicking on the "Appendix-C Document Application" link on student.metu.edu.tr address. You may proceed and finalize your application by following the “Appendix-C Document Support” menu.
You may use the “Send Feedback” button in the program or fill the
Online Contact Form
regarding your questions and problems about the Appendix-C Document
Last updated
13/01/2026 - 12:04