Codes of Practice Concerning the Course Transfer of Students Enrolled in Undergraduate Programs through Transfers from Other Higher Education Institutions, the Central Student Selection Examination and Equivalents
(1) These implementation principles apply to the Associate Degree and Undergraduate students indicated below:
a) Students who transfer from institutions of higher education outside METU
b) Students who register through the Student Selection and Placement Exam (ÖSYS) and other equivalent examinations
(2) The courses taken at the institutions of higher education previously registered in by students who enroll within this scope may be counted toward their new programs by recommendation of the concerned department chair and approval of the concerned administrative board.
(3) An adjustment process is performed for the courses that are counted toward a program.
(4) Courses counted toward a program are indicated on the transcript with the course code, course title, credit, and letter grade in the adaptation section of the transcript.
(5) Equivalent grades of the courses exempted through the adaptation are included in the CGPA starting from the semester that the student started or transferred to the program.
(a) The graduation cumulative grade point average is calculated, taking into consideration the credits, credit coefficients, and grades earned from courses taken in the program registered at METU as well as those earned in the courses counted from the previous program.
(b) In adaptation, the grading scheme approved by the METU Senate and in effect at the time of graduation (letter grade coefficients, score, status, etc.) as well as the 'Grade Systems Conversion Table' are used in converting the course grades counted from the previous program. (*)
(c) The graduation cumulative grade point average, which is calculated by including the courses taken at METU and courses transferred to METU, must be minimum 2.00.
(d) The graduation cumulative grade point average is indicated in the details section of the transcript.
(8) Excluding non-credit courses and the courses taken in NI status (extra-curricular), counting courses is not possible from a diploma program previously completed, or from diploma programs followed simultaneously in two different institutions of higher education.
(*) The change made through the Senate's decision no. 2015/1-12, dated January 13, 2015.
Updated through the Senate's decision dated May 12, 2020.
Last updated
23/12/2025 - 16:47