Middle East Technical University Directive for Summer School
PART 1
Aim, Scope, Basis and Definitions of Terms
Aim
ARTICLE
1
– (1) The aim of this directive is to regulate the procedures and principles concerning summer education which aims promoting educational efficiency by making use of  the university’s educational opportunities during summer months, which are exclusive of the Fall and Spring semesters.
Scope
ARTICLE
2
– (1) This directive incorporates the provisions concerning the principles of implementation concerning summer school education at Middle East Technical University.
Basis
ARTICLE
3
– (1) This directive is based on Articles 7, 14, and the additional Article 26 of The Higher Education Law No.2547, dated 4 November 1981.
Definitions of Terms
ARTICLE
4
– (1) Wherever in this directive the below terms appear, they shall be taken to refer to the following:
a) Concerned administrative board: the concerned faculty/graduate school/school administrative boards
b) Concerned board: The concerned faculty/graduate school/school boards
c) President: The President of Middle East Technical University
d) Senate: Middle East Technical University Senate
e) University/METU: Middle East Technical University
f) University Administrative Board: The Administrative Board of the University
PART 2
The Purpose of Summer School and
the Principles Concerning the Conduct of Education in Summer School
The purpose of the summer school
ARTICLE
5
– (1) The purposes of summer school are as follows:
a) To make use of the university’s educational opportunities in the summer months as well
b) To offer elective courses and support thesis work in graduate programs through the employment of faculty coming from abroad as well
c) To make double major and minor programs more convenient to pursue for students registered in these programs
d) To facilitate early graduation for high achieving students
e) To provide success opportunities for low achieving students by offering the courses they were unsuccessful in during the previous semesters
f) To promote educational efficiency through the elimination of the backlog of students in the departments
cademic calendar
ARTICLE
6
– (1) Courses to be offered in summer school, course registration, the starting and ending of classes, exams and other relevant issues are conducted according to the academic calendar set by the Senate.
Offering courses
ARTICLE
7
– (1) Courses in the regular curriculum of the university are opened in the relevant semesters. These courses are not to be postponed to summer school.
(2) Courses to be opened in the summer school are determined by the concerned administrative board, upon the request of the course instructor and by recommendation of the concerned department chair.
(3) The minimum number of students required to open courses and/or sections in summer school is determined by the University Administrative Board, being at least five for undergraduate courses and three for graduate courses. A reasoned decision of the concerned administrative board is required for a course to remain open after registrations with the number of registered students falling below the preset limit.
(4) There is no preset limit to the number of students for thesis courses in graduate programs.
Period of education
ARTICLE
8
– (1) The total number of class hours for a course in summer school is the same as that in a regular semester. Summer school lasts for a minimum of six weeks, including the final examinations.
(2) Summer school semesters are not counted toward the maximum period of study.
Registration
ARTICLE
9
– (1) A student may take maximum two courses during summer school.
(2) In summer school, students who are on probation cannot take the courses they have not taken previously.
(3) Adding or dropping courses or withdrawal from courses is not possible in summer school.
End-of-semester evaluation
ARTICLE
10
– (1) Students’ cumulative GPA is calculated at the end of the summer school.
(2) Students who are on academic probation are restored to good standing if their GPA at the end of summer school is raised to the GPA specified by the relevant regulation.
(3) Students’ summer school grades are indicated as such in their transcripts.
(4) Students who meet the requirements specified by the relevant regulation may qualify for graduation at the end of summer school.
PART 3
Miscellaneous and Final Issues
Conditions for which provisions do not exist
ARTICLE
11
– (1) In case of absence of provisions in this Directive, the provisions of the other regulations of the university are to be implemented.
Invalidation
ARTICLE
12
– (1)
Middle East Technical University Directive for Summer School
published in the Official Gazette No.20842 dated 11 April, 1991 has been invalidated
Northern Cyprus Campus
ARTICLE
13 – (1)
The procedures and principles concerning the implementation of this Directive in METU Northern Cyprus Campus are determined by the Senate.
Validity
ARTICLE
14
– (1) This Directive comes into effect on March 28, 2017, the date it was approved by the University Senate.
Implementation
ARTICLE
15
– (1) The President of Middle East Technical University implements the provisions of this Directive.
Last updated
12/01/2026 - 15:20