Middle East Technical University Directive For International Student Applications, Admissions and Registrations to Graduate Programs
(Senate Decision dated 20.5.2014)
PART 1
Aim, Scope, Basis and Definition of Terms
Aim
ARTICLE 1 –
(1)
The aim of this directive is to regulate the principles that govern the procedures concerning international student applications, admissions and registrations to graduate programs at Middle East Technical University.
Scope
ARTICLE 2 –
(1) This directive comprises provisions concerning international student applications, admissions and registrations to graduate programs at Middle East Technical University.
Basis
ARTICLE 3 –
(1) Procedures concerning international student applications, admissions and registrations are carried out within the framework of related provisions in the regulation governing METU’s graduate programs and its related directives.
Definition of terms
ARTICLE 4 –
(1) Wherever the following terms appear in this document, they shall be taken to refer to:
a)    ALES: Academic Personnel and Graduate Education Exam,
b)    Concerned GSAB: The graduate school administrative boards of Middle East Technical University,
c)    GMAT: The international
Graduate Management Admission Test
,
d)    Graduate program: Master’s and Doctoral programs,
e)    GRE: The international
Graduate Record Examinations
,
f)    GS: Graduate schools affiliated to the university,
g)    GS Department: A department under a graduate school,
h)    President: The President of Middle East Technical University,
i)     Senate: The Middle East Technical University Senate,
j)     University / METU: Middle East Technical University,
k)    University Administrative Board: Middle East Technical University Administrative Board,
PART 2
Application and Evaluation
ARTICLE 5 –
(1) Candidates within the following framework may be admitted to graduate programs:
a)   Those who have graduated from or are in their last year of study at a university are eligible to apply to the Masters and Ph.D. on Bachelor’s degree programs.
b)   Those who have completed or are about to complete a Masters with a Thesis program at a university are eligible to apply to the Doctoral programs.
Evaluation criteria
ARTICLE 6 –
(1) The following criteria are considered in the evaluation of the applicants:
a)    Cumulative Undergraduate/Graduate Grade Point Averages and transcripts,
b)   Curriculum Vitae (publications, awards, academic and professional experience, etc.),
c)  Exam results such as those of ALES, GRE, GMAT etc.,
d)  English Proficiency Exam scores,
e)  The oral/written examination administered by the concerned GS Department
f)  Letters of reference
g)  Letter of Intent
h)  Other documents as required by the concerned GS Department (e.g. portfolio)
(2)  Of the exam results which are taken into consideration in the evaluation of the applications, ALES exam results are valid for 3 years; GRE and GMAT exam results are valid for 5 years.
(3)  Candidates are required to present a national/international English proficiency document as specified by the University Senate.
(4)  Having fulfilled the application requirements does not necessarily mean being accepted to a program.
Application dates
ARTICLE 7 –
(1) Application dates are announced in the Academic Calendar.
The Application Procedure
ARTICLE 8 –
(1) Applicants are required to present the documents mentioned in the application announcement in full to the concerned Graduate School
(2) In case of application by post, late applications due to postal delays are disregarded.
Evaluation and announcement of the results
ARTICLE 9 –
(1) The applications of the candidates are evaluated by the concerned GS Department.
(2)  Applications are finalized as described below:
a)  Acceptance: Among candidates who have fulfilled all application requirements, those who are found eligible after the evaluation of the GS Department are accepted to the program.
b)  Acceptance to a Scientific Deficiency Program: Among candidates who have fulfilled all application requirements, those whose graduate programs are different from the undergraduate program they have completed are accepted to a Scientific Deficiency Program in order that they eliminate their deficiencies and adapt to the program. Candidates accepted within this scope take the recommended “Scientific Deficiency” courses.
c)  Conditional Acceptance: Candidates with missing ALES or GRE/GMAT scores (including those who are placed by the Council of Higher Education in accordance with the intergovernmental or intercultural agreements) may be accepted to graduate programs on a “conditional” basis by recommendation of the GS Department and decision of the concerned administrative board. Candidates who are accepted on a conditional basis can take a maximum of two courses from graduate programs provided that they pay the tuition fee. However, the number of courses may be increased with the approval of the concerned administrative board.
d) Rejection: Candidates who are found ineligible after the evaluation of the graduate school are not accepted to the program.
(3)  The results of the evaluation carried out by the GS Department are submitted to the concerned administrative board.
(4)  The results of the evaluation become definitive upon the approval of the concerned administrative board.
(5) Candidates who are accepted to graduate programs are sent an e-mail message by the Directorate of the concerned Graduate School informing them that they are granted acceptance and requiring them to declare whether or not they will come for registration. The candidates who declare that they will be present at registration are sent an official letter of acceptance in order that they might receive a visa.
Requirements for attendance to programs
ARTICLE 10 –
(1) Attendance requirements for candidates who have been accepted to a program is as follows:
a)  Admission: The attendance requirements of these candidates are as specified in the related articles of the Regulation Governing Graduate Education.
b)  Admission to a Scientific Preparation Program: Students who are successful in the Scientific Preparation Program earn the right to start their graduate program. The requirements for success in a Scientific Preparation Program are as specified in the related articles of the Regulation Governing Graduate Education.
c) Conditional acceptance:
i) In order for these candidates to gain admission to the concerned program, they must earn at least the letter grade BB in the courses they are registered in.
ii) A missing ALES or GRE/GMAT score may not be required from those candidates who fulfill the success requirement by recommendation of the GS Department and approval of the GS Administrative Board.
iii) The admission and course counting procedures of candidates who fulfill the success requirement are carried out by recommendation of the GS Department and approval of the GS Administrative Board.
iv) Those candidates who are unable to fulfill the success requirement may not start a graduate program even if they submit the required ALES/GRE/GMAT score.
PART 3
Miscellaneous and Final Provisions
Registration
ARTICLE 11 –
(1) It is mandatory that international students accepted to graduate programs register for the first semester they are admitted to the program. Otherwise, they will lose their right for registration.
(2) In order for these students to register, they must either hold a visa annotated for education or be in a foreigner status which does not require a student visa as stipulated by the General Directorate of Security.
(3) Submission of all the necessary documents in full during registration is imperative.
(4) International students may be required to document that their financial status is suited for covering their educational expenses in Turkey by providing a financial guarantee.
Tuition fee
ARTICLE 12 –
(1) The tuition fee for international students is determined by the University Administrative Board in accordance with the principle guidelines which are recommended by the Council of Higher Education and approved by the Council of Ministers.
Student aids and grants
ARTICLE 13 –
(1) The guidelines concerning the support of international students through tuition fee and/or dormitory fee discounts/exemptions, meal scholarships, etc. are determined by the University Administrative Board in accordance with the current regulations and directives.
Health insurance
ARTICLE 14 –
(1) It is advised that international students who have been admitted to a graduate program obtain health insurance unless they hold social security which is valid in Turkey.
Northern Cyprus Campus
ARTICLE 15
– (1) The implementation of this Directive at the Northern Cyprus Campus are determined by the Senate.
Validity
ARTICLE 16
– (1) This Directive is effective as of May 20, 2014, the date it was approved by the University Senate.
Implementation
ARTICLE 17–
(1) This Directive is implemented by the President of Middle East Technical University.
Last updated
23/12/2025 - 16:11