Course Credit System
The credit value of a course consists of all of its weekly theoretical course hours plus half the weekly hours of laboratory, workshop, studio, practicum and other similar work related to that course. For example, course credit
(2-2)3
refers to
"(theoretical course hour-laboratory hour) course credit".
Course with (3-0)3 credit includes 3-hour theoretical course, 0(zero) hour laboratory hour, and 3 course credits.
In the calculation of course credit with (1-4)3;
theoretical hour is taken as it is = > 1
half of the laboratory hour is taken = > 2
course credit = > 1+2 is found 3
The minimum total ECTS credits required to graduate from associate degree, undergraduate and graduate programs are as follows.
Associate degree programs (Industrial Electronic Program) 120 ECTS;
Undergraduate programs 240 ECTS;
International Joint Degree programs; Global and International Affair and Business Administration 120 ECTS; English Language Teaching 180 ECTS;
The phases of a Master’s program with a thesis consist of at least seven credit courses with a cumulative minimum total of twenty-one credits, one seminar course, thesis work and the defense of the thesis before an examining committee, corresponding to a minimum total of 120 ECTS-credits.
5-year non-thesis master programs (Physics and Chemistry Education Programs) 300 ECTS.
A non-thesis Master’s program consists of at least 10 courses with a total of 30 credits, a Semester Project course, and at least 60 ECTS-credits.
A Ph.D. program consists of the phases of at least seven credit courses with a cumulative total of twenty-one credits, one seminar course, the doctoral comprehensive examination, the thesis proposal, thesis work and the defense of the thesis before a jury, as well as a total of at least 240 ECTS-credits.
The Postgraduate Doctoral program consists of at least 14 credit courses, one seminar course, a qualifying exam, a thesis proposal, thesis work, and the defense of the thesis before a jury, with a total of no less than 42 credits and at least 300 ECTS credits.
Assessment and Grades
The coefficients of the letter grades, the score intervals used in the calculation of Grade Point Average and the standings related to success are indicated below:
Letter Grade
Coefficient
Score intervals
AA
4,00
90-l00
BA
3,50
85-89
BB
3,00
80-84
CB
2,50
75-79
CC
2,00
70-74
DC
1,50
65-69
DD
1,00
60-64
FD
0,50
50-59
FF
0,00
0-49
NA
0,00
*
Letter Grade
Standing
S
Successful
P
Progressing
U
Unsuccessful
EX
Exempt
I
Incomplete
W
Withdrawn
The grade NA is designated due to one of the conditions below. The grade NA is processed as FF in the calculation of the Grade Point Average.
Not fulfilling the attendance requirements for the theoretical and practical course hours as indicated in the course schedule.
Not qualifying to take the final exam due to failure in fulfilling the provisions regarding course practices.
Having taken none of the mid-term and final examinations.
Grades which are not included in the Grade Point Average are as follows:
The grade S (satisfactory) is designated to students who are successful in non-credit courses
The grade U (unsatisfactory) is designated to students who are not successful in non-credit courses.
The grade EX (exempt) is designated to students who have been exempted from certain courses in the curriculum.
The grade I (incomplete) is designated to students who are not able to complete the course requirements by the end of the semester or the summer school for a reason found valid by the course instructor. The grade “I” must be converted to a letter grade within a week from the last day of grade submissions for the semester or summer school. In special cases, however, this period may be extended latest until the date registrations start for the following semester, when it must be converted to a letter grade. These special procedures are conducted by recommendation of the department chair offering the course and the approval of the concerned administrative board. In case of failure to convert the grade “I” to a letter grade within the required period, the grade “I” will be automatically converted to the grade “FF” or “U”. The dates concerning the letter grade “I” are indicated in the academic calendar.(*)
The grade W (Withdrawn) is designated to students who withdraw from a course.
Last updated
08/01/2026 - 16:08