Diploma
Diploma is awarded to those who fulfill the graduation requirements.
It is prepared as a single copy. A second copy does not exist in the Registrar’s Office. In case of loss of diploma, the diploma is prepared as a “second copy”.
The diplomas are prepared three times a year; fall, spring, and summer school. Those who graduate at the end of summer school can get the diploma after the announcement of the final grades on the date announced in our Academic Calendar.
Those who graduate at the end of fall or spring semester can get the diploma in the “graduation ceremony”. If the student requires getting the diploma in these semesters, the temporary graduation certificate can be prepared.
Temporary graduation certificate: It is prepared for those who fulfill the graduation requirements. It is valid until the graduation ceremony of the concerned academic year. It is prepared for once and substitutive of the true diploma.
Temporary graduation certificate can be requested from the Registrar’s Office once
Document Request Form
is fulfilled.
The registration cancellation procedure has to be done on the program on
OIBS 269
to get the diploma and/or temporary graduation certificate.
An international student can get their diploma once they applied with a petition to the Registrar’s Office and report that they will not be present in Turkey during the graduation ceremony.
The diplomas of those who did not complete the registration cancellation procedure will not be available in the graduation ceremony. Those who did not attend the ceremony can get the diploma later on from the Registrar’s Office.
The diplomas are given to those who are awarded the degree. The diplomas can only be given to third parties once the degree owner write a petition to the Registrar’s Office and give an authorization to the person to get the diploma on behalf of them.
In the case of a name or surname change after the ceremony, personal information on the diploma or any other official certificates cannot be changed and rearranged based on new information.
Last updated
13/01/2026 - 15:02