General Information
APPLICATIONS FOR
THE ENGLISH PROFICIENCY EXAM
(EPE)
SCHOOL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGES
Contact Information
E-mail:
epe@metu.edu.tr
Web Address:
https://epe.metu.edu.tr/
Medium of Instruction
The medium of instruction at Middle East Technical University (METU) is English. All students who wish to carry out their undergraduate or graduate studies at METU have to certify their proficiency in English.
For undergraduate programs, the English proficiency of students who are nationals of English-speaking countries, or those who have attended and graduated from institutions of secondary education which nationals of those countries attend is evaluated by the SFL Administrative Board.
For graduate programs, students who are nationals of English-speaking countries and graduated from high schools and universities whose medium of instruction is English are not supposed to submit an English proficiency document.
The Validity of English Language Proficiency Documents
The validity period of EPE scores and scores obtained from exams deemed equivalent by the Senate is the period designated by the institution that owns the exam. This period of validity should not have been exceeded on the date of application to a graduate program. A document which is valid on the date of application will remain valid on the date of registration.
Periods during which the Department of Basic English Students can submit valid exam scores:
Department of Basic English Students can submit, to the Registrar’s Office, a valid score obtained on an international exam recognized by the University Senate between the last day of Spring Semester classes at the Department of Basic English and the last day of the Add - Drop period the following Fall Semester. Exam scores are not accepted at any other date.
The received exam results are verified through the concerned exam center’s verification service and, in accordance with the regulations and legislation, legal action is taken against those who have submitted invalid documents.
* Measurement, Selection and Placement Center (ÖSYM) Directive on Determining the Equivalence of Foreign Language Exams, Application Article - 6 (3) d) “If the exam is held in Turkey, it should only be held in the buildings belonging to the state university” In accordance with the provision of the Directive on Determining the Equivalence of Foreign Language Exams, if the exam is held in Turkey, it must be held in the buildings of state universities.
Graduate programs:
The medium of instruction in METU’s graduate programs is English. Courses that are to be conducted in Turkish or any other language are determined by the Senate.
In order to apply to graduate programs, candidates have to document their proficiency in English. The candidates’ English proficiency is assessed through EPE. Scores obtained from international language exams whose equivalences have been determined by the Senate may also be used to this end.
English proficiency documentation is not required from nationals of countries whose official language is English and who have graduated from an English-medium institute of higher education.
In accordance with the decision of the Middle East Technical University Senate dated 11 November 2025, it has been decided that candidates applying to graduate programs who, as of the date of application, fall within the last four semesters: - have graduated from an undergraduate or graduate program of our University, or - have held student status in one of our University's graduate programs for at least one semester, provided that they meet the EPE score specified by the Graduate School to which they are applying, will not be required to resubmit proof of English proficiency.
The validity period of EPE scores and scores obtained from exams deemed equivalent by the Senate is the period designated by the institution that owns the exam. This period of validity should not have been exceeded on the date of application to a graduate program. A document which is valid on the date of application will remain valid on the date of registration.
Make-up
:
A make-up exam is not given to those who did not or could not sit the METU-EPE for any reason.
Last updated
12/01/2026 - 13:22