Middle East Technical University Directive for Studies in International Undergraduate Dual Diploma Programs
MIDDLE EAST TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY
DIRECTIVE FOR STUDIES IN INTERNATIONAL UNDERGRADUATE DUAL DIPLOMA PROGRAMS
PART 1
Aim, Scope, Basis and Definition of Terms
Aim
ARTICLE 1 –
(1) The aim of this document is to regulate the principles governing the international undergraduate dual diploma programs conducted by Middle East Technical University and institutions of higher education abroad.
Scope
ARTICLE 2 –
(1) This directive comprises provisions concerning education, tuition fees, conditions regarding graduation and diplomas to be issued within the scope of international undergraduate dual diploma programs conducted by Middle East Technical University.
Basis
ARTICLE 3 –
(1)
This directive has been drawn up based on the regulation entitled  "The Regulation Governing Joint Programs of Higher Education Institutions and  Institutions of Higher Education Abroad" published in the Official Gazette no. 29849 of 6 November 2016.
Definition of Terms
ARTICLE 4 –
(1) Wherever the following terms appear in this document, they shall be taken to refer to:
a)  Dual Diploma Program: an undergraduate program conducted jointly with an institution of higher education abroad,
b)  The Directive:
Middle East Technical University Directive for Studies in International Undergraduate Dual Diploma
Programs
,
c)  The President: the President of Middle East Technical University
d) The Senate: Middle East Technical University Senate,
e)  The University/METU: Middle East Technical University,
f)  Undergraduate program: a higher education program consisting of a minimum of eight semesters.
PART 2
Principles Concerning the Conduct of Studies
Medium of Instruction
ARTICLE 5 –
(1) The language proficiency level required by the University for each dual diploma program is determined by the Senate.
(2) Students enrolled in a dual diploma program are to fulfill the language proficiency requirements of both universities.
Admission to the Program
ARTICLE 6 –
(1) In addition to the fulfillment of the University’s requirements for admission to undergraduate programs, the requirements of the concerned university abroad have to be met.
Grades and Assessment of Academic Standing
ARTICLE 7 –
(1) The end-of-the-term letter grades obtained in courses are determined in accordance with the grading system of the university where the courses have been taken.
(2) Each university applies its own rules in assessing the students’ end-of-the-term academic standing.
(3) Each university conducting the dual diploma program is to calculate their students’ grade point averages (GPAs) for the semester and cumulative grade point averages (CGPAs) so as to include only the courses taken at their university.
(4) A separate transcript is to be prepared for each student by each university. On each of the transcripts, the courses taken at the concerned university as well as the semester GPA and the CGPA calculated based on the grades obtained in these courses are indicated.
(5) The transcript showing the courses the student has taken and the grades obtained is sent to the partner university each semester.
(6) As soon as the student meets the requirements for graduation in both universities, the credits obtained at each university and their grade points are added to calculate a single graduation grade point average for the completed dual diploma program. This cumulative grade point average is indicated on the transcripts issued by both universities as the CGPA for graduation.
Repeating Courses
ARTICLE 8 –
(1) With the exception of students on probation, courses with letter grades DD and above may be repeated within the four semesters following the semester in which the course was taken in dual diploma program at METU.
(2) Maximum two of the failed courses or two courses that were not previously enrolled in may be taken at the partner university providing approval from the concerned university is obtained.
(3) The consent of the concerned coordinator is required for a failed course to be taken at the partner university. The course taken is included in the partner university’s curriculum upon the approval of the faculty administrative board and is assessed in accordance with the partner university’s success criteria.
Minor and Double Major Programs
ARTICLE 9 –
(1) Students enrolled in these programs may not register in double major programs at METU.
PART 3
Graduation, Diplomas, Advisors, Tuition Fees, Graduation Procedures
Graduation Procedures
ARTICLE 10 –
(1) The graduation procedures of students are carried out as follows:
a) Graduate candidates are determined by the Registrar’s Office within the framework of the METU Ankara Campus curriculum and the coordinating body of the concerned program is notified.
b) The concerned coordinating body requests information from the related unit of the partner university as to whether the students have become eligible for graduation within the framework of their curriculum.
c) A mutual agreement letter stating that the student has become a graduate candidate within the framework of the curricula at both universities is sent to the Registrar’s Office by the concerned program coordinator.
d) A student who has fulfilled the graduate requirements at the Ankara Campus is awarded a METU diploma after the official transcript indicating that the graduate requirements at the partner university have also been fulfilled is submitted to the Registrar’s Office by the concerned program coordinator.
Diplomas
ARTICLE 11 –
(1) On condition that students have fulfilled the success requirements of each university, they are awarded either a joint diploma or two diplomas, one from each university, in accordance with the nature of the program.
(2) If students are to receive two different diplomas, the diplomas should bear the full names of both universities and an indication that they have been awarded for a dual diploma program.
(3) In dual diploma programs, students may qualify for neither diploma unless they fulfill the success requirements of the program.
Advisors
ARTICLE 12 –
(1) In order to help students in following the curricula and assist them in any other matter, a University Coordinator is assigned by the Presidents in each university and a Program Coordinator is designated by the chairs of the concerned departments.
(2) The Program Coordinators examine the academic status of the students at the end of each semester and determine the university where the following semester will be spent and the courses to be taken with the approval of the partner university’s coordinator.
Tuition Fees
ARTICLE 13 –
(1) The tuition fees for dual diploma programs are determined by the concerned boards of each university within the framework of the related legislation.
PART 4
Miscellaneous and Final Provisions
Invalidated Regulation
ARTICLE 14 –
(1) The regulation pertaining to the Middle East Technical University -
State University of New York (Suny) Joint International Undergraduate Programs
published in the Official Gazette no.27511 dated January 01, 2005 has been invalidated.
Conditions for which provisions do not exist in this Regulation
ARTICLE 15 –
(1) In conditions for which provisions do not exist herein, the regulation entitled
Middle East Technical University
Academic Rules and Regulations Governing Undergraduate Studies
published in the Official Gazette no. 28387 dated August 17, 2012, the directive entitled
The Establishment of Joint Degree Programs between Institutions of Higher Education and Those Institutions Abroad within the Scope
and the Senate decisions will govern.
Northern Cyprus Campus
ARTICLE 16 –
(1) The procedures and principles regarding the implementation of this directive for the dual diploma programs at the Northern Cyprus Campus are determined by the Senate.
Validity
ARTICLE 17
– (1) This directive was approved by the University Senate on June 17, 2014 and has come into effect as of that date.
Implementation
ARTICLE 18
– (1) The provisions of this directive are implemented by the President of Middle East Technical University.
Last updated
23/12/2025 - 16:40