Special Student
2025 - 2026 SPRING SEMESTER
SPECIAL STUDENT APPLICATION AND REGISTRATION DATES
09 - 16 FEBRUARY 2026
Registrar's Office
Applications Coordination Office
Telephone  :
0 (312) 210 34 12 - 210 21 29
Online Contact Form
oidb-basvuru@metu.edu.tr
For “Middle East Technical University Directive for Special Students,” please click
here
.
APPLICATION AND REGISTRATION PROCEDURES OF SPECIAL STUDENTS
Candidates applying to METU as a special student must submit the required documents mentioned below to the Registrar’s Office Applications Coordination Office (The Registrar’s Office Ground Floor) by hand on February 16, 2026, at 17:00.
After submitting the documents, the Registrar's Office will register special students for the approved course/courses and give them student numbers.
The special student enrollment procedure is semester-based, and candidates who will apply in the next semesters must do all the procedures again.
Special students are not accepted to the preparatory class.
Special student applications of students enrolled at METU are not accepted.
REQUIRED DOCUMENTS
Special Student
Application Form
. (It must be signed by the instructor and the Head of Department/Division Head)
A
true copy of the diploma
or
Educational Certificate
for those who have graduated,
A student certificate
for those who are registered at a university.-,
Document showing the
medium of the instruction of the program
registered in the current university,
Document proving
not having any disciplinary action,
Official English Language Exam Result recognized by METU (see the exams recognized by METU from
http://oidb.metu.edu.tr/en/equivalence-table-english-language-exams-rec…
) for candidates from the higher education institutions whose medium of instruction is Turkish.
Two photos
(One of the photos will be pasted on the application form, the other is for the special student card).
Receipt of the course fee per credit and application fee
for the candidates who are supposed to pay. For bank accounts;
http://oidb.metu.edu.tr/tr/diger-hizmetler-icin-banka-hesap-numaralari
adresini takip edebilirsiniz.
Students who will take the course(s) from undergraduate programs as special students should submit the related Faculty Administrative Board decision about counting the courses into their curriculums back in their universities. The courses which will be taken at METU must be mentioned in the decision.
Students who will take the course(s) from graduate programs as special students should submit the Institute Administrative Board decision from their universities that they can take courses from METU. The courses which will be taken at METU must be mentioned in the decision.
Sending the Faculty Administrative Board or Institute Administrative Board decisions to METU without submitting the required documents for the application as an attachment of an official correspondence will not be enough for the registration process. To complete the registration process, all documents must be submitted to the Registrar's Office.
Candidates who submit their application documents must obtain a password from
https://useraccount.metu.edu.tr/newstudent/
to view the course notes and follow the shared course documents at the end of the semester.
APPLICATION FEE AND COURSE FEE PER CREDIT
Undergraduate and graduate students enrolled at state and foundation universities in Turkey are exempt from special student application and credit fees (excluding summer school).
The table below presents the application fee for graduate students who wish to take courses from undergraduate programs and international students who are not enrolled in a higher education institution in Turkey.
APPLICATION FEE
Turkish citizens (Special Student): 950 TL
International Students (Special Student): 55 $
SPECIAL STUDENT COURSE FEE (PER CREDIT)
Turkish citizens (Special Student): 2500 TL
International Students (Special Student):250 $
Those who apply for special student status for two consecutive semesters without a break are exempted from the application fee in their second application.
Non-credit courses (Except for Non-thesis evening programs Graduate Seminar and Term Project) are paid as two credit courses.
Instructors, administrative staff, and technical personnel in METU (except for part-time instructors and scientific project specialists) pay the course fee per credit with a 50% reduction. People in the mentioned situation should present a true copy of their academic identity card. The one whose appointment procedures are in progress should present a document taken from the Directorate of Personnel Department about their designation procedures.
Students may ask for a refund for their course fee and application fee payments within the given dates on the Academic Calendar. For refund requests, students should fill out the Payment Refund Application Form (available here:
http://oidb.metu.edu.tr/en/forms
) and submit it to the Registrar's Office by attaching the payment receipt.
EVENING NON-THESIS MASTER'S PROGRAMS- SPECIAL STUDENTS
For students who want to take some courses as special students from non-thesis evening master programs, there is no tuition exemption or reduction. The special student course fees for the courses of Evening Non-Thesis Master's Programs are different, and these fees are available at this link:
http://oidb.metu.edu.tr/en/tuition-fee-amounts
. Candidates are required to pay the fee per credit and submit all the required documents and a copy of the bank receipt to the Registrar’s Office/ Applications Coordination Office (The Registrar’s Office, ground floor) by hand. Moreover, the original bank receipt and a copy of the receipt should be given to the Department Secretary.
BANK ACCOUNTS FOR THE EVENING NON-THESIS MASTER'S PROGRAMS
İş Bank (TL) IBAN No
TR110006400000142290431564
İş Bank (DOLLAR) IBAN No
TR100006400000242293123036
Please see the tuition fee amount webpage by clicking
here
.
OFFERED COURSES
For offered courses, please click
here
.
TUITION FEE PAYMENTS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL JOINT UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM (SUNY) STUDENTS
International joint undergraduate program students who will take courses as special student are required to pay a fee per credit explained in the
http://oidb.metu.edu.tr/en/tuition-fee-amounts
Last updated
03/02/2026 - 10:07