Middle East Technical University Directive for the Academic Ranking of Students and Graduates and Documents Issued
Aim
ARTICLE 1-
(1)
The aim of this directive is to regulate the provisions concerning the academic ranking of students enrolled in or graduating from the associate or Bachelor’s degree programs at Middle East Technical University and the principles regarding the documents to be issued.
Scope
ARTICLE 2-
(1) This directive incorporates the provisions concerning the academic ranking of students enrolled in or graduating from the associate or Bachelor’s degree programs at Middle East Technical University and the principles regarding the documents to be issued.
Academic ranking within classes
ARTICLE 3-
(1) Class rankings are done on a semesterly (Fall and Spring) basis.
(2) Class rankings are done after the deadline indicated on the academic calendar for grade corrections and the submission of the incomplete grades, etc. of the related semester by the course instructor with the approval of the concerned administrative board.
(3) Class rankings are applicable to students within their normal period of study.
(4) The class ranking of students is based on their Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA).
(5) The students are ranked according to their CGPA, starting from 4.00/ 4.00, which is the highest CGPA score.
(6)
Double major students are not subject to a class ranking with the students enrolled as major students in that program.
(7) Each student’s position in the class ranking is indicated on his/her transcript for the related semester.
Academic ranking among graduating students
ARTICLE 4-
(1) The highest ranking graduates are determined at the end of the academic year.
(2) During the ranking, the Fall and Spring term graduates of the concerned academic year are evaluated together.
(3) For the Spring semester, graduating students who rank in the highest positions according to their finalized grades until the date of the Graduation Ceremony are determined.
(4) In the event of students entitled to one of the highest ranks as a result of grade corrections, incomplete or similar other grades after the Graduation Ceremony, no change is made in the academic ranking. Such students are issued a document certifying their position.
(5) The academic ranking of graduating students is based on their CGPA.
(6) Graduating students are ranked according to their programs, starting from 4.00/ 4.00, which is the highest CGPA score. The same ranking is done at the levels of Faculty, School and University by incorporating the graduates of programs.
(7)
Students graduating from a
double major program are not subject to an academic ranking with students graduating from that major program.
(8)
As a result of these rankings, students ranking the highest among those who have a minimum CGPA of 3.00/ 4.00 and who are graduating within their normal period of program (4 years / 8 semesters) or earlier are determined in the categories below:
a) Students who rank first across programs
b) Students who rank first across faculties/schools
c) Undergraduate students who rank first, second, and third University-wide
(9) In the case of equality, more than one student is ranked in the same position.
(10) The highest ranking students are awarded a “certificate of merit”, signed by the President of the University, together with their diploma.
(11) The total number of graduating students in the concerned academic year is also indicated on this certificate (at the levels of Faculty/School or University according to the type of document).
Northern Cyprus Campus
ARTICLE 5
– (1) The procedures and principles concerning the application of this directive to the programs conducted in METU Northern Cyprus Campus are determined by the Senate.
Validity
ARTICLE 6-
(1) This directive takes effect on 26 March 2013, the date it was approved by the Middle East Technical University Senate.
Implementation
ARTICLE 7-
(1) This directive is implemented by the President of Middle East Technical University.
Last updated
23/12/2025 - 16:46