ANNOUCEMENT ABOUT THE UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO EXCEEDED THEIR MAXIMUM DURATION OF EDUCATION BY THE END OF THE 2024-2025 SPRING SEMESTER
According to the Implementation Procedures and Principles determined by Middle East Technical University Senate regarding the undergraduate students who exceeded their maximum duration of education within the scope of Article 44 (c) of the Law No 2547;
A) Undergraduate students who want to apply for the
Additional Exam
at the end of their Maximum Duration of Education;
Undergraduate students who exceeded their maximum duration of education by the end of the 2024-2025 Spring semester are supposed to apply to their
Department Heads
between
20 - 24 October 2025
with
FORM 1
, including the course/s they will use their first additional exam right. Students who did not apply to use the additional exam right within the specified dates will not be able to apply for it again.
FORM 1
(Application form for undergraduate students who want to apply for the Additional Exam at the end of their maximum duration of education)
Additional Exam Schedule
Undergraduate students who have "applied courses" are also supposed to follow the conditions specified in Article C.
Those who want to take the exam from the Department of Music and Fine Arts courses must get approval from the Head of the Department of Music and Fine Arts before submitting the exam application form to the Department Heads.
B) Undergraduate students who have 2 to 5 courses without taking the
Additional Exams
and want to benefit from the right of 4 Additional Semesters at the end of their Maximum Duration of Education;
The students are supposed to apply to the Registrar’s Office with
FORM 2
after getting approval from their academic advisors and the Department Head between
17 - 23 September 2025
. The students have to take a document registration number from the Documents and Archives Directorate before coming to the Registrar’s Office.
Students who want to benefit from the right to additional semesters have to pay the tuition fee and register for the semester. These students benefit from student rights.
Undergraduate students who have 2 to 5 courses can apply for the Additional Exam by filling out FORM 1 without benefitting from the right to additional semesters.
FORM 2
(Application form for undergraduate students who have 2 to 5 courses without taking the Additional Exams and want to benefit from the right of 4 Additional Semesters at the end of their Maximum Duration of the Education)
C) Undergraduate students who want to benefit from the right of taking the
“Applied Courses”
for one-time at the end of the maximum duration of education;
Students are supposed to apply to the Registrar’s Office with
FORM 3
after getting approval from their academic advisors and the Department Head between
17 - 23 September 2025.
The students have to take a document registration number from the Documents and Archives Directorate before coming to the Registrar’s Office.
Undergraduate students who want to benefit from the right of taking the “applied courses” for one time at the end of the maximum duration of education have to pay the tuition fee. These students benefit from student rights.
FORM 3
(Application form for undergraduate students who want to benefit from the right of taking the "applied courses" for one time at the end of the Maximum Duration of Education)
NOTE:
* The students who applied to the Registrar's office with Form 2 between 17 - 23 September 2025 will be able to enter the registration system on 24 - 26 September 2025, which is Interactive Registration and Advisor approval, to register for courses and get advisor approval.
** The students who applied to the Registrar's office with Form 3 between 17 - 23 September 2025 will be done by the Registrar's Office add-drop procedures.
*** You can get detailed information about the Implementation Procedures and Principles determined by the METU Senate in accordance with Article 44 (c) from
here
.
Son güncelleme
08/01/2026 - 15:46