General Information About Interactive Registration
STUDENTS WHO WILL MAKE INTERACTIVE REGISTRATION FOR THE FIRST TIME
Registrations will be done by using
http://register.metu.edu.tr
URL address. During registration, please do not open more than one window at one time. Doing so may cause to loss of information or the program may fail to register the courses.
The registration program opens during the dates announced in the academic calendar.
In order to access the registration program, you will use your
user code
and
password
. The student password can be obtained from
METU User Account Management
after university registration. User code consists of the first 6 digits of the student number with an "e" at the beginning (e.g. e111222).
Students are to click on METU's main page (
www.metu.edu.tr
) on any computer having an internet connection.
On the top of the main page, it can be reached the information to learn the complete list of courses to graduate by
Academic Catalog
subtitle under the title of
Academic Information (Academics)
.
The registration program requires the numeric codes of departments and courses. This information can be reached through
View Program Course Details (64)
title among the programs that are authorized by the student under
https://student.metu.edu.tr
URL address.
The program assigns the must courses automatically to the student's profile. If the must courses are not added, students must add the courses themselves. Detailed information can be reached from the websites of
the departments
which give the courses.
A course can be added by the addition of the
course code
and
course section
. The course the student would like to withdraw can be selected by the "
drop
" button.
The course whose section will be changed can be selected by the "
change section
" button.
After completing the course addition, the academic advisor approves the registration. Otherwise, the registration will not be completed.
(*) Advisor Approvals start on the first day of the interactive registrations at 10:00 am.
REGISTRATION RENEWAL PROCESS
Each student must renew his/her registration for each semester during registration dates announced on the Academic Calendar. For registration renewal you need to follow the steps below:
Tuition fee payment (for students who need to pay)
Interactive registration (except students of Department of Basic English)
Advisor approval (except students of Department of Basic English)
Students who miss any of the above steps will be "not registered" for that semester.
STUDENTS WHO ARE NOT REGISTERED
Students who did not complete their registration process during the registration dates (except those in their first semester and those in the adaptation process) cannot register during the add-drop period. Those must write a petition stating their justifications to the related Board of Directors until the end add-drop period. If the Board of Directors accepts his/her justification, his/her registration can be renewed. The ones whose justifications are not accepted will not be registered.
The students who were not registered can make registration on the interactive registration dates for the next semesters. They must write a petition to the Registrar's office until the first date of the interactive registration date. Their application will be evaluated by the Registrar's office. If they are accepted, their registrations will be renewed, and the students can make registration on the interactive registration dates of the related semester. The semesters in which students are not registered will be deducted from the maximum period of the study.
ADD-DROP PERIOD
Students who did their registrations during the Interactive Registration Period and do not want to make any changes do not need to use the registration program again.
Students who did their registrations during the Interactive Registration Period and want to make changes (adding or dropping a course, section changes, etc.) need to take advisor approval again during the add-drop period.
REGISTRATION and ADVISOR APPROVAL PROGRAM
Interactive registrations will be done by
https://register.metu.edu.tr
.
On the first day of the registration process, the advisor approval program will open at 10:00. Students must contact their advisors about the courses they will take before registering. It has been decided that advisor approvals will be carried out online.
You can find detailed information about the interactive registrations by using
this link
.
When it is required to make a change on the registration program after getting the advisor approval in the registration or add-drop period, it is necessary to contact the advisor to cancel the previous approval and to get a new approval after making the changes.
Students will be able to register step by step on the first day of registration. Registration hours by year are as follows:
Beginning from 9:00: 4th-year students
Beginning from 10.00: 4th and 3rd-year students
Beginning from 11:00: 4th, 3rd, and 2nd-year students
Beginning from 12.00: 4th, 3rd, 2nd, and 1st-year students
Beginning from 13:00: Graduate, and 4th, 3rd, 2nd, and 1st-year students
Interactive Registration for Students; It ends on last date of interactive registration at 17:00
Advisor Approvals; It starts on the first date at 10:00, and it ends last day at 23:59.
STUDENT PASSWORDS
To access the registration program, you will use your
user code
and
password
. Student passwords can be obtained from
METU User Account Management
after university registration. User code consists of the first 6 digits of the student number with an "e" at the beginning, we strictly recommend you check your password before the registration period begins. In case of a password change, you can access the program after 30 minutes.
THE UNITS TO BE CONSULTED FOR PROBLEM
Issue
Related Unit
Password
Computer Center
Those who forgot their passwords should follow the steps stated on
https://useraccount.metu.edu.tr/
Tuition Fees
Tuition Fee Office. (Top Floor of the Çatı Cafe)
Library Debt
Library
Course registration criteria
Department, year, surname, capacity, sections of elective courses, etc.
Secretary or OIBS user of the related department
Must courses, prerequisite courses
OIBS user of the related department or Registrar’s Office
Elective courses
Secretary or OIBS user of the related department
TURKISH LANGUAGE, HISTORY, IS 100, MUST ENGLISH LANGUAGE and ELECTIVE LANGUAGE COURSES
Information about these courses (registration, attendance, success, prerequisite, course codes, etc.)can be found on the following links:
For Turkish Language courses:
http://turk.metu.edu.tr/&nbsp
;
For History courses:
http://hist.metu.edu.tr/
For IS 100:
https://ii.metu.edu.tr/is100&nbsp
;
Must English Language and Elective Language courses:
http://mld.metu.edu.tr/en
CONTROLS and AUTOMATIC PROCESSES of the REGISTRATION PROGRAM
The registration program automatically controls the below-mentioned processes.
For undergraduate programs, must courses, based on the criteria (prerequisite, the department that will open the course, year, surname, capacity, etc.) defined by the departmental OIBS user, will be automatically added to the enrolment list of the students.
For undergraduate programs, the must course with unsuccessful grades will be automatically added to the students’ enrolment list and the replacement of those courses.
The "Seminar Course" will be automatically added for the master’s (with thesis) and doctorate program students in their third and fourth semesters. The "Seminar Course" will be automatically added for the post-bachelors' Ph.D. program students in their fifth and sixth semesters.
The "Term Project" course will be added for master’s programs without a thesis and secondary master’s programs without a thesis in the second semester and later periods.
The “Thesis” and “Thesis Studies” courses will be automatically added for master (with thesis) and doctoral students after their adviser has been appointed.
Warning messages:
There will be a warning message for students of the undergraduate program in case of
:
Overlapping courses
Change of the course load defined in the curriculum in the first semester
Students who take less than three courses which is the minimum course load
Courses cannot be added to the student's schedule because of full capacity.
There will be a warning message for students of the graduate program in case of:
Enrolling to a course with the code 3XX or 4XX in a master's program with a thesis that has not been taken during the undergraduate program. A maximum of two of these courses can be considered part of the course load.
Enrolling in a course with the code 3XX or 4XX in a non-thesis master program that has not been taken during the undergraduate program. A maximum of three courses can be considered part of the course load.
For Ph.D. students taking an undergraduate course unless its status is NI.
Taking the courses with credits unless their status is NI for the master's program students and post-master's doctoral program students who are in the thesis writing period in the fifth and over semesters, and for the post-bachelor's doctoral program students who are in the thesis writing period in the seventh and over semesters.
A warning message that "the ethics course should be taken in the fourth semesters of master and doctorate students, the sixth semester of post-bachelor's doctorate students" will be automatically displayed on the registration page. Students who took the ethics course before must contact their departments for exemption from the course.
Registration program do not let students complete their registration under the following circumstances:
Not to pay tuition fees (for the students who are obliged to pay tuition fees)
To exceed the course load (for the undergraduate programs)
Not to meet the requirements about course registration under the probation status (for the students of undergraduate programs)
Not to meet the pre-requisite of the course (The prerequisite of the course is not department-based, but course-based as defined in the catalog)
Not to meet the requirements of the regulations about the courses with NI status
Not to assign a thesis advisor until the date specified in the academic calendar for Master's students who are in their second semester and Ph.D. students who are in their third semester
METU INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES USE POLICY
Information about METU Information Technology Resources Use Policy can be reached via
http://www.metu.edu.tr/it-use-policy
Last updated
13/01/2026 - 11:59