How to Get a Transcript
For transcript fee for domestic and international applications, please click
here
.
The amount to be paid for the transcript application can be paid by credit card while applying through the system.
You may request transcripts via the "Transcript Request Form" available on the
student.metu.edu.tr
address (if you are a registered student) or on the
application.metu.edu.tr
(if you have graduated)
Who can use this program?
Transcripts can be taken by all METU students (registered/graduate/not-registered).
Users with an active METU username and password can make their application with their METU student ID number and e-mail account. (Example:
e123456@metu.edu.tr
)
If you have any problem with your accounts/passwords, you may use the METU User Account Management page at
https://useraccount.metu.edu.tr
If your account is inactive, you will use the “Inactive User” link and login to the system.
What is the Inactive User?
Inactive Users are the students with the semester status of not-registered and the graduates whose usernames have been closed. These users have to register with another e-mail address since they cannot log in with their METU username and password.
What should I do if my student ID number cannot be found in the system? (For inactive users)
If your student ID number cannot be found in the system, you cannot log in to the application program. An e-mail will be sent automatically to the Registrar’s Office regarding the issue. The Registrar’s Office will check the records and will inform you about your student ID number.
How can I receive my Transcript?
Transcript Request can be made via answering the related questions after clicking “Transcript Request” link.
Advisors in the Registrar's Office will be notified about the document requests for approval and preparation.
Depending on the option you select,
If you select “I want to receive my transcript online” option
, the system will generate the document with a QR code on it. After the approval and the preparation of the document, the student will be notified via the “Transcript Request" link on the application program and via the e-mail to be sent to you by the Registrar's Office that the PDF file is ready to be downloaded.
If you select “I want to receive my transcript by hand from the Registrar’s Office” option
, the system will generate the document with a QR code on it. After the wet-ink signature and the seals are completed, the student will be notified via the “Transcript Request" link on the application program and via the e-mail to be sent to you by the Registrar's Office that he/she can collect the document.
-You may collect your document within 1 working day following your application.
-Students will collect their transcripts by showing their student ID card.
-Associate degree and undergraduate students will collect their transcripts from the entrance floor of the Registrar’s Office.
-Masters and Ph.D. students will collect their transcripts from the first floor of the Registrar’s Office.
-Students registered at the English Preparatory Program cannot make a transcript request.
If you select “I want to receive my transcript by post” option,
the system will generate the document with a QR code on it. After the wet-ink signature and the seals are completed, it will be posted to the given address.
If you apply for a new document within the validity period of a previous document, the previous document will continue to be verifiable within the validity period. However, the verifying institution will be notified about the issuance of a more current document.
You can track the status of your application via the “Transcript Request" link on the application program.
Transcript fee receipts will be submitted to the related field in the application program. Online transcript requests are free of charge.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
1. Is it possible to make multiple applications?
If you have already requested a transcript, you cannot make a new application until the Registrar's Office approves and prepares your document.
It is only possible to make a new application after you see the PDF button for your latest request.
2. Can I submit the same PDF file to more than one institution?
Yes, you can. You do not need to make multiple applications for each institution that you want to submit the document. Within the validity period, you may download as many documents as you want and submit it to the institutions.
3. When will my transcript be ready to collect?
You may collect your document within 1 working day following your application. You can track the status of your application via the “Transcript Request" link on the application program and via the e-mail to be sent to you by the Registrar's Office.
4. I want to get a transcript. What should I do?
Users with an active METU username and password can make their application with their METU student ID number and e-mail account at student.metu.edu.tr. You may proceed and finalize your application by following the “Transcript Support” Menu.
If your account is inactive, you will click “Transcript Request” box at application.metu.edu.tr and then proceed and finalize your application by following the “Transcript Support” Menu.
You may use the “Send Feedback” button in the program or fill the
Online Contact Form
regarding your questions and problems about the transcript.
Last updated
12/01/2026 - 14:40