Registrations of Students Who Achieved Registration Right Within the Scope of Amnesty Law
ENGLISH PROFICIENCY
The medium of instruction in METU is English and the validity of English Proficiency results recognized by the University Senate is two (2) years.
The students who discontinued their education more than two years must certify their English Proficiency.
Those students who must certify their English proficiency must submit their English Proficiency Exam results which are valid and recognized by the University Senate to Registrar’s Office between the belowmentioned dates.
Registration right of the students who do not certify their English proficiency is reserved until they certify their English proficiency.
The students who are registered for the four (4) semesters by the registration date are not required to certify their English proficiency.
Equivalence Table For English Language Exams Recognized by METU is presented in the following webpage.
http://oidb.metu.edu.tr/en/equivalence-table-english-language-exams-recognized-metu-undergraduate-and-graduate-students
ADAPTATION PROCESSES
For those students who discontinued within the scope of relevant regulations, adaptation processes will be done by relevant Administrative Commitee.
INTERACTIVE REGISTRATION
The students can register interactively after their adaptation decisions are delivered to Registrar’s Office. The students who do not have any obstacles in terms of English Proficiency and adaptation process within the scope of related regulations can make their interactive registrations after they submit their required documents in the registration period.
The students in The Department of Basic English do not register interactively. The registration of these students consists of the payment of the tuition fee.
STUDENTS WHO ARE DISMISSED FROM CLOSED PROGRAMS
Adaptation processess of students who are dismissed from closed programs will done for equivalent programs. If any equivalent program is not found, their application will be informed to Higher Education Council by the University.
REQUIRED DOCUMENTS FOR REGISTRATION
Amnesty Application form
English proficiency result forstudents who discontinued their education more than two years
The copy of identity card
High School Diploma for those who withdrew their registration and took back their high school diploma OR Pre-Bachelor’s/Associate Degree Diploma for those who withdrew from undergraduate programs and obtained a Pre-Bachelor’s/Associate Degree diploma
6 Photos: 4,5 x 6 cm or 3 x 2,5 cm photos must have been taken in the last 6 months. Your face on the photo must be clearly visible and recognizable, thus male students must be beardless and female students should not wear a head scarf or turban. Photocopies are not accepted.
The tuition fee receipt (for those who are obliged to make the payment).
Criminal record document (for those who have at least one semester break
Last updated
05/01/2026 - 11:06