Tuition Fee Payments
Dates for the Tuition Fee Payments
26 January - 04 February 2026
For Basic English Department students who repeat the year and international students who will study in the DBE for the first time
26 January - 13 February 2026
Period for tuition fee payments for undergraduate and graduate students
02 - 09 March 2026
Period for justifiable tuition fee reimbursement applications
The tuition fee payments are determined by Article 46 of the Higher Education Council decision number 2547, which can be find on the following link:
www.yok.gov.tr
General Information
Those who are obliged to pay tuition fees make their payment at the beginning of the related semester to be eligible for registration and renew registration.
Those who did not make the tuition fee payments, and did not consider on leave by the administrative board of the University cannot complete the registration process and avail students' rights.
Those who did not renew the registration can complete the registration for the paid semester and do not have to make payment for the non-registered semester.
The actual semester
is considered for payments. The probation semester is not considered.
The registration program controls tuition fee payments.
The Students Who Are Exempt from Tuition Fee
Students with TC/KKTC nationality who are in the normal program duration for the daytime education(Except those undergraduate program students with TC/KKTC nationality who registered for their program as international students in the 2021-2022 Fall semester or later.)
The students with scholarships which include tuition fee exemption during their normal education period
The research assistants who are studying in their graduate programs within the normal duration of education
Children of martyrs and veterans throughout their education
Double major students are exempt from tuition fee payments for one more semester after their graduation from the major program. (9th and 10th semesters)
The students who are within the scope of tuition fee exemption submit their documents for the related semester until the last day of interactive registrations to the Office of Student Accounts (Top floor of Çatı Cafe - Near Industrial Engineering Building).
International students who are listed under the "Tuition Fee EXemptions" heading on this page:
https://iso.metu.edu.tr/en/tuition-fee
The Students Who Need To Pay Tuition Fee
The students with TC/KKTC nationality who do not graduate within the normal education period of their program (Those undergraduate program students with TC/KKTC nationality who registered for their program as international students in the 2021-2022 Fall semester or later will pay also within the normal education period.)
The double major/minor students who haven't finished their double major/minor in normal education period
The students who register two different graduate programs
The students in evening programs
The students in international joint-degree programs
Undergraduate program students who registered through international student quotas
Students with foreign nationality (except TC/KKTC nationalities) registered in graduate programs
The Students Who Can Get Tuition Fee Reduction
For the disabled students, those who submit a medical report concerning their disability
The international students who are awarded a discount according to the related regulations of our university.
Exchange Students
Exchange students are dependent on the regulations of their home universities.
Special students who registered to our university within the scope of KHK decisions numbered 667
Those who are obliged to make payment will make their tuition fee payment to the University in which they registered and placed by ÖSYM.
Normal Education Period
Program
Program Duration
English preparatory school at the Department of Basic English
1 Year (2 semesters)
Associate Programs
2 Years (4 semesters)
Undergraduate programs (4 years)
4 Years (8 semesters)
Undergraduate programs (5 years)
5 Years (10 semesters)
Graduate programs (Compensatory) (1-semester)
1 semester
Graduate programs (Compensatory) (2-semester)
2 semesters
Master programs
2 Years (4 semesters)
Ph.D. programs
4 Years (8 semesters)
Post-Bachelor's Ph.D. programs
5 Years (10 semesters)
Transfer students’ semesters in their previous program/university are considered for the normal program duration of their current program and taken into account for the tuition fee payments.
Payment Receipts
Payments are made at the banks' online tuition fee payment accounts stated on
Bank Account Numbers
. When paying tuition, students should state their ID numbers and have their ID numbers printed on the receipt.
Students can pay tuition fees as online by following the steps: Open İş Bank application - Payments - Education Payments - METU STUDENT NUMBER
There is no wire transfer charge for payments to ONLINE ACCOUNTS from bank branches in or outside METU.
In the cases of tuition fee refund with an excuse, the students are obliged to keep their bank receipts.
Tuition Fee Payment Control on Registration Program
The data exchange between banks and the university is online concerning tuition payment. The payment information is reflected on the registration program when made at the banks.
The registration program controls the tuition payment of the students who are obliged to make the payment.
The tuition payment for evening graduate programs without a thesis is calculated on a credit basis. Thus, total payment control is made according to the number of credits that the course requires. Payment for a non-credit course is made as it is a 2-credit course (except for Graduate Seminar, Term Project, and Special/Advanced Studies).
Tuition payment control can be made on the program below:
http://oibs.metu.edu.tr/Student_Semester_Details_61
Tuition Fee Refund
Refund due to course status (not offered/closed)
The tuition paid for courses that are not opened or closed due to the insufficient number of registered students is refunded on the condition that the student applies before the "Tuition refund application deadline" announced by the university.
Refund of students who withdraw on their own will
There is no tuition refund for the students who withdraw their registration at their own will.
Refund Procedures
For the tuition fee refund, students should fill the Payback Application Form numbered 409 in the following link
https://student.metu.edu.tr/#/
submit it to the Tuition Fee Office by sending an e-mail to
katkipayi@metu.edu.tr
together with the original payment receipt until the deadline stated in the academic calendar. The bank account to be refunded must belong to the student. Otherwise, the refund can not be made.
RELATED UNIT IN METU
The tuition fee procedures are carried out by Tuition Fee Office (Upfloor of the Çatı Cafe). For any problem regarding tuition fee payments, students should visit the tuition fee office.
Last updated
13/01/2026 - 09:13