Middle East Technical University Directive For Students' Health Issues And Medical Reports
PART1
Aim, Scope, Basis, and Definition of Terms
Aim
ARTICLE 1
– (1) The aim of this directive is to regulate the principles concerning the protection of students’ physical and psychological well-being, treatment of their illnesses, provision of guidance in health issues and psychological counseling, as well as medical reports.
Scope
ARTICLE 2
– (1) This directive covers students enrolled in the English preparatory class, associate, undergraduate and graduate degree programs.
Basis
ARTICLE 3
- (1) This document has been drawn up based on article 47 of the Higher Education Act 2547 dated November 4, 1981.
Definition of Terms
ARTICLE 4
– (1) Wherever the following terms appear in this directive, they shall be taken to refer to:
a) GHI: General Health Insurance,
b) Concerned administrative board: The administrative boards of faculties/graduate schools/schools at Middle East Technical University,
c) Campus: The Ankara Campus of Middle East Technical University,
d) Health Center/ HGC: Middle East Technical University, Ankara Campus Health and Guidance Center,
e) University / METU: Middle East Technical University.
f) Directive: Middle East Technical University Directive for Students’ Health Issues and Medical Reports,
Part 2
Health Insurance, Getting Appointments at Health Institutions, Treatment Costs
Health Insurance
ARTICLE 5 –
(1) Students with Turkish citizenship must be registered at the GHI.
(2) International students are covered by health insurance throughout their education by paying the GHI premium within the framework of article 82 of law no. 5510.
(3) International students of full scholarship by public agencies, institutions and organizations established by law, associations functioning toward the benefit of the public and tax-exempted foundations, and students receiving education within quotas allotted by the Higher Education Council are not considered insured. The health-related expenses of such students are covered through the budgets of institutions of higher education as stipulated in articles 46 and 47 of the Higher Education Act 2547 dated November 4, 1981.
(4) All international students, excluding those mentioned above, must obtain private health insurance.
(5) International students must obtain private health insurance until they are covered by GHI.
HGC
ARTICLE 6
– (1) Students may consult the HGC regarding their health and psychological problems. The examination and treatment of students are conducted at the HGC within capacity.
(2) If deemed necessary, the HGC may refer students to relevant health institutions.
(3) The HGC may take the measures deemed necessary to protect public health, and may prescribe medicines and carry out vaccinations against epidemics without any cost.
Other health institutions
ARTICLE 7
– (1) Students may consult health institutions regarding their health and psychological problems.
Treatment costs
ARTICLE 8
- (1) The procedures regarding students’ health-related costs are carried out in accordance with the principles stated in the
Directive for
Social Security Institute Health-Related Practices.
PART 3
Medical Reports
Documentation of students’ presence at the HGC for medical examination and treatment
ARTICLE 9
– (1) A medical examination document is drawn up by the HGC by request of students.
(2) This document is in the form of a situation report and bears information about the day and hours in which the student received medical examination and treatment at the HGC.
(3) The document is sent to the concerned Department / Graduate School Department chairs by the HGC.
(4) The following procedures are carried out regarding the consideration of the medical examination document as an excuse for absenteeism:
a) The principles set by the School of Foreign Languages (SFL) are applied to Department of Basic English students.
b) The concerned faculty member or academic unit exercises its discretionary power for students in other programs.
Validity of reports
ARTICLE 10
– (1) Medical reports issued by the HGC, and hospitals and health institutions recognized by the Social Security Institute are valid.
(2) Students submit, to the HGC, the medical reports they received from the related health institutions, latest five days after the period covered by the report ends.
Procedures for medical reports
ARTICLE 11
– (1) HGC sends a copy of the medical reports registered by the HGC to the chairs of the Department / Graduate School Department the students are enrolled in.
(2) The concerned faculty members are informed by the concerned Department / Graduate School Department chair about the students’ medical reports.
(3) The following procedures are carried out regarding the consideration of the medical report as an excuse for absenteeism and missed examinations:
a) The principles set by the School of Foreign Languages (SFL) are applied for Department of Basic English students.
b) The principles set by the Graduate School Directorates are applied for graduate students.
c) Medical reports are accepted as an excuse for absenteeism for students in other programs. Handling of make-ups for examinations missed during the period of medical reports are at the discretion of the concerned faculty member.
(4) The rules related to the letter grade (I) in the concerned regulation are implemented for the student who has a valid medical report for the date of the final examination.
(5) A make-up examination is not given for the English Proficiency Exam administered by the School of Foreign Languages.
Obtaining leave-of-absence due to health issues
ARTICLE 12 –
(1) Granting a leave-of-absence to students for a semester or semesters due to health issues is possible within the framework of the rules specified in the concerned regulation.
(2) A student who wishes to take a leave-of-absence for a semester due to health issues attaches the medical report to the petition for leave-of-absence and presents these to the chair of the concerned Department / Graduate School Department.
(3) The medical report must cover 1/3
rd
of the semester in order for the request to be taken into consideration.
(4) In requests for leaves-of-absence, the HGC informs the chair of the concerned Department / Graduate School Department of whether the student has consulted the HGC regarding the specific health issue, if any, the dates of such an incident, along with their opinion related to granting a leave-of-absence for the semester.
(5) The opinion of the HGC is obtained for requests for leaves-of-absence for a semester. The discretion belongs to the concerned Administrative Board within the framework of the related regulation.
PART 4
Miscellaneous and Final Provisions
Northern Cyprus Campus
ARTICLE 13
– (1) The procedures and principles regarding the implementation of this regulation at the Northern Cyprus Campus are determined by the Senate.
Invalidated regulation
ARTICLE 14
– (1) The regulation entitled
Middle East Technical University Regulation for Students’ Health Issues and Medical Reports
published in the Official Gazette no. 24940 dated November 11, 2002 has been invalidated.
Validity
ARTICLE 15 –
(1) This regulation takes effect on 22.4.2013, the date it was approved by the University Senate.
Implementation
ARTICLE 16 –
(1) The President of Middle East Technical University implements the provisions of this regulation.
Last updated
23/12/2025 - 16:36