MIDDLE EAST TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY DIRECTIVE FOR THE COUNCIL OF STUDENT REPRESENTATIVES
PART 1
Aim, Scope, Basis
Aim
Article 1
– (1) The aim of this directive is as follows:
a) To help improve the academic, social and cultural opportunities available to students as stated in the Mission Statement of Middle East Technical University,
b) To convey the expectations and demands of students to the administrative organs of the university and to enable student participation in educational decisions by establishing effective communication between the administrative organs of the university and students,
c) To contribute to the development of the students as individuals with a sense of social responsibility, and a deep understanding of the principles of democratic governance,
d) To regulate the principles of the foundation and functioning of the University’s Council of Student Representatives (CSR).
Scope and Basis
Article 2 –
(1)
The principles mentioned in this regulation pertain to associate degree, undergraduate and graduate students.
(2) This directive has been drawn up based on the Higher Education Student Council and National Student Council Acts published in the Official Gazette no. 25942 on 20.09.2005.
PART 2
Election Boards
University Election Board
Article 3 –
(1) The University Election Board is designated by the President.
(2) The University Election Board is chaired by the concerned Vice-President or Assistant to the President.
(3) The University Election Board comprises three members of faculty including the chair of the board.
(4) The duty of the University Election Board is to ensure the process of student representative elections.
Faculty/Graduate School/SFL/TVS Election Board
Article 4
–
(1) The Faculty/Graduate School/School of Foreign Languages (SFL)/Technical Vocational School (TVS) Election Board is designated by the concerned Dean/Director.
(2) The Election Board is chaired by
a) the Associate Dean or Assistant to the Dean in faculties,
b) the assistant director in graduate schools,
c) the Chair or assistant chair of the Department of Basic English in SFL,
d) the assistant director in TVS
(3) The Faculty
/Graduate School/SFL/TVS
Election Board comprises three members of faculty including the chair of the board.
(4) The duties of the Faculty
/Graduate School/SFL/TVS
Election Board are as follows:
a) Taking the necessary measures regarding the realization of the Student Representative elections in accordance with the principles of this directive,
b) Informing the University Election Board of the election results in an official report,
c) Examining and resolving the objections to the Department/Graduate School Department and Faculty
/Graduate School/SFL/TVS
elections.
Department/Graduate School Department Election Board
Article 5 –
(1) The Department/Graduate School Department Election Board is designated by the concerned chair of the Department/ Graduate School Department.
(2) The
Department/Graduate School Department
Election Board is chaired by the assistant chair of the
Department/Graduate School Department
.
(3) The
Department/Graduate School Department
Election Board comprises three members of faculty including the chair of the board, and two students who did not run for student representative seats
(4) The duties of the
Department/Graduate School Department
Election Board are as follows:
a) Preparing and announcing the voter lists,
b) Receiving the applications of students who will be running for student representative seats, assessing whether they qualify for candidacy and announcing eligible candidates,
c) Ensuring the printing and stamping of election ballots
d) Designating and assigning the ballot commissions.
e) Determining and announcing the locations of the ballot boxes and ensuring their placement on the day of the elections
f) Arranging the student representative elections in accordance with the principles of this directive
g) Informing the concerned Dean’s Office/Graduate School directorate/School Directorate of the Department/Graduate School Department election results in an official report.
Ballot Commission
Article 6 – (1)
This commission is designated by the concerned Election Board from among faculty of the department.
(2) This commission is responsible for holding the elections, counting the votes and officially reporting the election results to the concerned Election Board on the date of the election.
PART 3
The Election Process
Election Calendar
Article 7 –
(1) The election calendar is set by ODTU Presidency.
Eligibility for Candidacy
Article 8 –
(1) Class Representative candidates must meet the following criteria:
a) Be a registered student of the academic unit (Department, GSD, SFL,TVS) she/he is to represent,
b) Not be on leave of absence during the semester the elections are held,
c) Not be a member of or working for a political party,
d) Not have received the disciplinary penalty of  suspension,
e) Should have a CGPA and GPA of minimum 2.00 at the end of the previous semester,
f) Be within the normal period of education defined in the related rules and regulations.
(2) Students in a double major program may only be the candidate of and cast ballots in their major departments.
Applications for candidacy
Article 9 –
(1) Applications for candidacy are made to the concerned Election Board (Department, GSD, SFL, TVS) by one week prior to the election date.
(2) Before the elections, the names of the Representative candidates are announced for minimum three days on the website
otk.metu.edu.tr.
Publicity and campaigns
Article 10–
(1) All kinds of announcements and posters related to election publicity and campaigns may be posted at the locations specified by the academic unit administrator in academic units and by the Secretary General elsewhere on campus for the period announced by the University Election Board. Such material is to be removed at 16:00 hrs. the day before the elections.
(2) During this period, the publicity activities of the candidates may be organized in locations and times found appropriate by the administrator of the concerned academic unit.
Election procedures and principles
Article 11
– (1) The student representative is elected by the registered students of the academic unit (SFL, Department, GSD) she/he is to represent through secret ballot, open counting.
(2) In order for the department/GSD/SFL/TVS representative elections to be valid, at least 60% of the students enrolled in the concerned class of the related academic unit must have participated in the first round of the election, and 50% in the second round of the election. If the election cannot be held due to insufficient participation in the first two rounds, participation is not required in the third round.
(3) In order to be elected, a candidate must receive the absolute majority of the votes cast by students in each round.
(4) If the first round voting is not decisive, the elections are repeated within maximum four days with the two candidates who received the most votes in the first round.
(5) In the event that no result is obtained form the second round, the elections are repeated within the following four days.
(6)  If no result is obtained in the third round of voting, the concerned academic unit will be considered to have decided not to elect a Class Student Representative.
(7) In case of equality in the number of votes received by the two candidates, the election is repeated the following day the latest.
The elections
Article 12
– (1
)
On the day of the elections, the ballot box, the list of voters and the election ballots are brought to the location where the elections are to be held by the Ballot Commission at 09:30 latest.
(2) The ballot box is opened to show that it is empty to both the candidates and voters.
(3) Voters collect their ballots from the Ballot Commission upon presenting their student ID cards. After marking their preferences in a closed booth, they cast their sealed ballots in the ballot box and put their signature across their names in the voter list before leaving the location for elections.
(4) Voting closes at 16:00 hrs. on the election day.
Counting the ballots and announcing the results
Article 13 –
(1) The counting of the ballots starts at 16:00 hrs. on the election day and is performed publicly by the Ballot Commission.
(2) The election results are submitted to the concerned election board by the concerned ballot commission in an official report.
(3) The number of ballots and the valid votes received by the candidates are indicated in the report.
(4) The names of students who have been duly elected as Department, GSD, SFL, TVS Student Representatives are announced on the website
otk.metu.edu.tr.
(5) The Faculty,  Graduate School, SFL, TVS Election Boards are notified of the election results in an official report.
Objections to the election results
Article 14
– (1) Any objections to the election results shall be made to the election board concerned within the first work day following the announcement of the results.
(2) The election board carries out the necessary inspection and reaches a decision within two days at most.
(3) Should the election board decide to renew the elections, they are held within four days of the date of the decision.
Termination of representation
Article 15
– (1) Student representation is terminated if the representative
a) is granted leave of absence for a period of one term after being elected,
b) is no longer eligible due to failing to fulfill the requirements for candidacy (except for the CGPA requirement),
c) voluntarily withdraws from representation.
(2) In the event that the representaion of a student terminates, elections are held in the concerned unit within two weeks in accordance with the same principles. The newly elected person completes the term of the representative s/he has replaced.
Higher Board Elections
Article 16 –
(1)
In addition to being members of the Student Board, students who have been elected as SFL Student Representatives convene in a meeting organized by the DBE Chair in order to elect two representatives amongst themselves. The DBE Chairperson may invite these representatives to join, without the right to vote, the Department Board meetings where student related issues are to be discussed.
(2) The elections for the administrative boards of Faculty, Graduate School, TVS, and University Student Representative Boards are conducted in one session and multiple rounds. In order to be elected, a candidate must receive the votes of the absolute majority of the concerned board. If the first two rounds are inconclusive, the candidate with the least votes withdraws and the election is repeated. When only two candidates are left, the candidate who receives more votes is the winner regardless of the number of votes received.
(3) The representatives elected at all levels convene within four days upon the invitation of and under the Chair of the concerned Election Board, and elect the representative and his/her assistant who are to become members of higher boards. The Chair of the concerned Election Board reports the results to the higher election board and announces these at the web adress
otk.metu.edu.tr.
.
PART 4
The Council of Student Representatives and its Organs
Term
Article 17
– (1) The terms of duty for student representatives and boards start with the announcement of the election results and end with the announcment of the results of the elections held one or two years later, depending on the duty.
SFL Student Board
Article 18 –
(1)
The SFL Student Board is a board comprising students elected as representatives from among SFL students.
(2) At their first meeting each year, the SFL Student Board elects from among its representatives the President of the SFL Student Board (the SFL Student Representative) and a Vice-President by absolute majority vote, to serve for a one-year term.
(3) The SFL Student Board submits the results of the election to the SFL Directorate in an official report.
Faculty/Graduate School Student Board
Article 19 –
(1) The Faculty/Graduate School Student Board is a board comprising the department student representatives of the concerned Faculty/Graduate School.
(2) At their first meeting each year, the Faculty/Graduate School Student Board (excluding those whose memberships continue) elects from among themselves by absolute majority vote and for once:
a) the President of the Faculty/Graduate School Student Board (Faculty Student Representative) to serve for two years,
b) the Vice-Presidentof the Faculty/Graduate School Student Board.
(3) The Faculty/Graduate School Student Board election results are presented by the concerned election board to the University election board in an official report.
Duties and Responsibilities of Student Boards
Article 20 –
(1) The duties and responsibilities of the student representative boards at all levels are as follows:
a) To represent the students of the units involved in student related activities,
b) To form working groups, conduct research and surveys, and develop suggestions regarding student related issues,
c) To convey the problems, ideas and opinions of the students to the administrators and/or administrative organs of the units concerned,
d) To conduct their work and activities in accordance with the current legislation and in coordination with, and if necessary, by seeking the approval of the CSR and the President’s Office.
(2) At the end of their term, the CSR prepares a report comprising the activities that have been carried out during their term and recommendations for the following term. They submit two copies of this report to the President’s Office to be conveyed to the CSR that will take over the duty.
Duties and Responsibilities of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Boards of Student Representatives
Article 21 –
(1) The duties and responsibilities of the presidents and vice-presidents of the boards of student representatives at all levels are as follows:
a) When deemed necessary, the concerned board’s president or vice-president convenes the board concerned, chairs the meeting and implements the board’s decisions.
b) Upon invitation of the administrator of concerned unit, the president or vice-president of the board participates, without the right to vote, in the concerned academic board meeting where student related-issues are discussed. The student representative leaves the meeting after the student-realted issues are completed.
c) The vice-president represents the president in her/his absence.
d) The president of a board represents her/his unit in the concerned higher board.
CSR General Assembly
Article 22
– (1) The CSR General Assembly is an organ comprised of the presidents of the SFL, faculty, and graduate school boards.
CSR Administrative Board
Article 23 –
(1) The CSR Administrative Board (excluding those whose memberships continue) is elected for a two-year term by the CSR General Assembly in their first meeting each year from among themselves by absolute majority vote and for once.
(2) The CSR Administrative Board consists of the following members:
a) the President of the CSR,
b) the Vice-President of the CSR,
c) the Secretary General of the CSR,
d) the CSR Accountant,
e) the CSR Public Relations and IT Chief,
f) the CSR External Affairs Chief,
g) the CSR Work Groups Chief,
h) the CSR Educational Affairs Chief,
i) the CSR Health, Sports and Cultural Affairs Chief.
(3) In the event that the number of representatives is not sufficient to assume the above mentioned duties, only the President, the Secretary General, the Accountant, the Educational Affairs Chief and the Health, Sports and Cultural Affairs Chief are elected.
CSR Board of Auditors
Article 24
– (1) The CSR Board of Auditors is a board comprising a chair and two members and which is elected for a two-year term by the CSR General Assembly by absolute majority vote.
(2) The
members of the
Board of Auditors are elected from among the CSR Administrative Board members whose term is about to end and who will still be students at the university for at least one year. In the event that the number of the CSR Administrative Board members does not suffice, the Board of Auditors is elected from among the CSR members.
(3) The
Board of Auditors inspects whether the CSR Administrative Board functions in accordance with the related legislation and reports the findings of its inspections to the President’s Office and the CSR General Assembly.
CSR election results
Article 25 –
(1) The University Election Board submits the results of the CSR elections to the President’s Office in an official report.
Meeting norms
Article 26 – (1)
The quorum for a board meeting at any level is the absolute majority of all members.
(2) To reach a decision at any board meeting, the absolute majority vote of all particiants is required.
(3) At any board meeting, minutes are kept and the decisions taken are put in writing and signed by the members. The minutes and all the reports that may be prepared are open to the public opinion of the university.
Budget
Article 27 –
(1) The budget required to meet the needs of the CSR is determined by the President’s Office.
PART 5
Other Provisions
Northern Cyprus Campus
Article 28 –
(1) The procedures and principles concerning the application of this directive at METU’s Northern Cyprus Campus are determined by the Senate.
Validity
Article 29 –
(1) This directive takes effect on 01 September 2014, the date it was approved by the METU Senate.
Implementation
Article 30 –
(1) This directive is implemented by the President of METU.
Last updated
23/12/2025 - 16:37